GOOD EVENING EVERYONE AND
WELCOME TO THE FEBRUARY FIVE
MEETING OF THE ANN ARBOR CITY
COUNCIL.
IF YOU'RE ABLE PLEASE RISE AND
JOIN US FOR A MOMENT OF SILENCE
FOLLOWED BY THE PLEDGE
OF ALLEGIANCE
BETWEEN THE
UNITED STATES OF AMERICA AND
STANDS ONE NATION UNDER ALONG
WITH LIBERTY AND JUSTICE FOR
ALL.
WHAT ARE THESE CALLED THE ROLE
OF COUNSEL
COMES EVERY DAY HERE
FOR HARRISON HERE FAR FROM HERE
BECAUSE WE'RE HERE.
THAT'S WHERE DENHA HERE.
LET'S WORK OUT THE MS.
TAYLOR HERE CUSTOMER IRE
OBSCENITY CUSTOMER AKMAN HERE
CUSTOMER BRIGS ABSENT CUSTOMER
CORNELL HERE WE HAVE A MOTION
PLEASE TO APPROVE THE AGENDA
MOVE BY COUNSELOR AKMAN SECOND
BY COUNCIL MEMBER CORNELL
DISCUSSION OF THE AGENDA ON
FAVOR POSED THE AGENDA IS
APPROVED.
WE HAVE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM OUR CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
NO THANK YOU.
WE DO HAVE ONE INTRODUCTION
TODAY THAT BEING THE THE
COMMUNICATION FROM THE CHAIR
OF OUR INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY
POLICE OVERSIGHT COMMISSION
CHAIR CARTER CHAIR CARTER, YOU
ARE ONLINE AND YOU HAVE THE
KHONG
.
GOOD EVENING.
UH, MAYOR, TWO MEMBERS
OF COUNCIL MADAM CLERK, JAKARTA
YOU ARE INAUDIBLE OH MY MAICH.
OH WAIT A MINUTE.
CAN YOU HOLD ON FOR QUICK SET?
SURE.
OK, JUST A SECOND PLEASE.
CAN YOU GIVE IT A TRY NOW CAN
YOU HEAR ME NOW.
YOU BET WE CAN'T THANK YOU.
OH WELL THANK YOU MAYOR TAYLOR
COUNCIL MEMBERS AND MADAM CLERK
IT'S GOOD TO BE WITH YOU ON
THIS FIRST MONDAY IN BLACK
HISTORY MONTH.
UM HERE AT IMPACT WE HAVE OUR
COMMITTEES WORKING.
WE HAVE OUR TRAINING COMMITTEE,
OUR POLICE POLICY REVIEW
COMMITTEE AND WE HAVE A COURSE
OUR INFORMATION MANAGERS WHO
CONTINUE TO REVIEW COMPLAINTS
AND I'M HAPPY TO REPORT THAT WE
ARE UP TO DATE NOW WITH OUR
COMPLAINT REVIEW.
I AM ALSO HAPPY TO REPORT THAT
SO FAR IN TWENTY TWENTY FOUR IT
HAS NOT RECEIVED ANY CITIZENS'
COMPLAINTS REGARDING THE POLICE
DEPARTMENT AND WE HAVE NOT BEEN
INFORMED THAT THE DEPARTMENT
HAS ANY COMPLAINTS THAT THEY
HAVE NOT YET INFORMED US ABOUT
WITH REGARD TO OUR OUTREACH
COMMITTEE WE ARE PLANNING OUR
NEXT PUBLIC FORUM FOR A MARCH
MEETING THAT WILL BE THE FOURTH
TUESDAY IN MARCH AND AT THAT
TIME WILL BE INVITING THE NEW
CHIEF OF POLICE TO DIALOG WITH
THAT WITH THE PUBLIC.
WE'RE INVITING THE PUBLIC IN
THIS PUBLIC FORUM AS WAS OUR
LAST IS GOING TO BE HELD AT THE
PEACE NEIGHBORHOOD CENTER AND
OF COURSE WE HOPE THAT AS MANY
OF US CAN WILL JOIN US AND WE
ARE INVITING THE PUBLIC TO COME
OUT AND JOIN US IN THAT BOTH
TUESDAY IN MARCH.
WE ARE IN THE PROCESS
OF FINALIZING OUR ANNUAL REPORT
FOR TWENTY TWENTY
THREE IN
KEEPING WITH THE BYLAWS AND I'M
SURE YOU KNOW OUR OUR BYLAWS
SAY SPECIF WE ARE TO PROVIDE
THE COMMUNITY WITH A ROLE IN
RECOMMENDING POLICIES AND
PRACTICES THAT ENSURE A HIGH
QUALITY OF POLICE SERVICE.
WHEN WE DO SEND YOU OUR REPORT
WILL BE MAKING SEVERAL
RECOMMENDATIONS IN THAT REPORT
.
SOME OF THOSE RECOMMENDATIONS
ARE ALSO IN KEEPING WITH OUR
MANDATE TO WORK WITH THE
DEPARTMENT TO ENCOURAGE THE
RESPECTFUL TREATMENT OF ALL
PERSONS WITHOUT UNDUE FORCE.
THIS CONCERN IS OF SPECIAL
SIGNIFICANCE WITH RESPECT TO
SEGMENTS OF THE COMMUNITY THAT
ARE VULNERABLE AND HAVE BEEN
MARGINALIZED.
THAT'S PART OF OUR CHARGE AND
YOU KNOW, WE BELIEVE THAT THIS
IS A FUNDAMENTAL ISSUE.
MAYA ANGELOU ONCE SAID PEOPLE
WILL FORGET WHAT YOU SAID,
PEOPLE WILL FORGET WHAT YOU
DID, WHAT PEOPLE WILL NEVER
FORGET HOW YOU MADE THEM FEEL
AND WE THINK THAT'S IMPORTANT
BECAUSE SO MANY OF OUR
COMPLAINTS HAVE TO DO WITH
CITIZENS WHO FELT THAT THEY
WERE IN SOME WAY DISRESPECTED
IN THEIR CONTACT WITH A POLICE
OFFICER THAT THE OFFICER WAS
RUDE OR IN SOME OTHER WAY
DISRESPECTFUL AND SO WE WILL BE
RECOMMENDING MORE TRAINING FOR
OUR OFFICERS AND ONGOING
TRAINING SO THAT THEY ARE FULLY
AWARE THAT THEY CAN MAKE A
DIFFERENCE AS TO HOW PEOPLE
FEEL IN POLICE INTERACTIONS.
WHAT ARE THE SPECIFIC
RECOMMENDATIONS THAT WE'RE
MAKING HAS TO DO WITH TRAFFIC
STOPS AND OF COURSE BECAUSE
OF THE NEW ORDINANCE THAT YOU
HAVE APPROVED, WE EXPECT FEWER
TRAFFIC STOPS THAT WE ARE
ASKING THAT THE POLICIES BE
AMENDED SO THAT WHEN AN OFFICE
AND WE HEAR THIS TIME AND TIME
AGAIN FROM CITIZENS IN THE
COMMUNITY WHEN AN OFFICER MAKES
A TRAFFIC STOP, WE ARE ASKING
AT THE FIRST THING THAT THEY DO
IS INTRODUCE THEMSELVES AND
TELL THE CITIZEN WHY THEY ARE
BEING STOPPED.
I MAY HAVE TOLD YOU THE STORY
BEFORE IT'S VERY SHORT BUT IN
CASE I HAVE NOT, I'M GOING TO
TELL IT AGAIN.
MY HUSBAND MY LAST YEAR WERE
TRAVELING AND WE WERE IN
ANOTHER STATE VISITING
RELATIVES.
WE HAD A RELATIVES CAR AND WE
WERE AT TOOK IT THAT EVENING I
WENT TO THE STORE ON THE WAY
BACK IT WAS GETTING DARK AND AS
WE'RE DRIVING WE HAD THE POLICE
LIGHTS BEHIND US AND OF COURSE
WE WERE UNNERVED.
YOU KNOW, WHAT DID WE DO WRONG?
WE PULLED OVER THE OFFICER WENT
UP TO THE DRIVER'S WINDOW.
MY HUSBAND ROLLED DOWN THE
WINDOW AND THE OFFICER SAID
HELLO, MY NAME IS OFFICER
SO-AND-SO.
I'M WITH THE HENDERSON POLICE
DEPARTMENT AND I STOPPED YOU
BECAUSE YOU'RE THE TAGS ON YOUR
PLATE ARE EXPIRED.
THAT SET THE TONE FOR THAT
ENCOUNTER AND OF COURSE
RELIEVED A LOT OF TIMES FOR
HAVING BEEN STOPPED.
SO THAT'S ONE OF THE
RECOMMENDATIONS WE'RE GOING TO
BE MAKING AND WE'RE GOING TO
WE'RE LOOKING FORWARD TO
WORKING WITH THE NEW CHIEF AND
WE WILL HAVE YOU REPORT AND
RECOMMENDATIONS AS SOON AS
POSSIBLE IF THERE ARE NO
QUESTIONS THAT IS THE REPORT
FOR TONIGHT.
THANK YOU, TARCUTTA.
WE DON'T COME TO PUBLIC COMMENT
RESERVED TIME PUBLIC COMMENT
RESERVE TIME IS AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC TO
SPEAK TO COUNCIL TO THE
COMMUNITY ABOUT MATTERS
OF MUNICIPAL INTEREST TO SPEAK
AT PUBLIC COMMENT RESERVE TIME
ONE NEEDS TO HAVE SIGNED UP IN
ADVANCE BY CONTACTING OUR CITY
CLERK.
SPEAKERS IN ALL INSTANCE WILL
HAVE THREE MINUTES IN WHICH TO
SPEAK.
SO WHETHER YOU ARE HERE OR ON
LINE, PLEASE PAY CLOSE
ATTENTION TO THE TIME HERE YOU
WILL BE NOTIFIED WHEN THIRTY
SECONDS ARE REMAINING EITHER BY
THE TIME OR UP FRONT OR BY OUR
CLERK.
IF YOU'RE ONLINE WHEN YOU'RE
THIRTY WHEN YOUR THREE MINUTES
HAVE EXPIRED PLEASE CONCLUDE
YOUR REMARKS AND CEDE THE
FLOOR.
WE DO HAVE SIXTEEN MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC WHO HAVE SIGNED
UP FOR PUBLIC COMMENT.
OUR RULES PROVIDE THAT WE WILL
LISTEN TO PUBLIC COMMENT.
WE WILL HAVE PUBLIC COMMENT FOR
UP TO FORTY FIVE MINUTES AT THE
BEGINNING OF THE MEETING AND SO
IF IF THE FIRST FIFTEEN
CONCLUDE IN UNDER FORTY FOUR
MINUTES AND 59 SECONDS THEN
LUCKY NUMBER SIXTEEN WILL HAVE
THE PLEASURE OF LISTENING TO
THEM AS WELL.
OUR FIRST SPEAKER IS RALPH
BUCKY.
GOOD EVENING RALPH MACCHIO
FIFTH I'D LIKE TO START BY
EXPRESSING THANKS TO THE FOUR
COUNCIL MEMBERS IGHER BRIGGS
FOR DENHA AND ECKMANN FOR
HAVING THE SPINE TO SHUT DOWN
THE SPORTS ILLUSTRATED RESORT
AND HOPE COUNCIL CREATE A
TRANSPARENT PROCESS FOR
UNSOLICITED PROPOSALS ON CITY
PROPERTIES AND REENGAGE THE
PUBLIC READ THE CLEAN LINE BUT
THERE'S A LOT TO LEARN RACE,
SECRECY, TRANSPARENCY AND TRUST
THIS PROCESS WENT ON BEHIND THE
SCENES FAR TOO LONG WASTING
DOZENS OF STAFF HOURS AND TENS
OF THOUSANDS IN LAWYER FEES.
THE PUBLIC ONLY FOUND VIA FOIA
THE COMMENTS MADE BY THOSE
VOTING DOWN THE RESOLUTION IN
OCTOBER MADE LITTLE SENSE LIKE
FOR EXAMPLE, A MAYOR AND
COUNCIL MEMBER CORNELL SAYING
ANY DEVELOPER COULD MAKE
ANOTHER PROPOSAL.
IN REALITY NO DEVELOPER WOULD
DO THAT WHEN THEY SITE PROPOSAL
IS FAR ALONG BEING CHAMPIONED
BY THE CITY ADMINISTRATOR.
THE COMMENT MADE ABOUT USE
OF TIME THAT THAT MIGHT WASTE
IGNORED THE WASTE OF TIME THAT
ACTUALLY HAPPENED.
COUNCIL MEMBER THIS IS SAYING
LET'S WAIT FOR A SITE PLAN.
IT'S TONE DEAF AS TO VALUING
EARLY PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT ON
ISSUES AS IMPORTANT AS THIS
NEXT HIS EMAILS SHOW MR. TONY
SPLIT COUNCIL SESSIONS IN
SEPTEMBER TO AVOID OPEN
MEETINGS ACT DENYING IT DOESN'T
CHANGE THAT CLAIMING YOU NOT
KNOW ABOUT PUBLIC SUPPORT FOR
AFFORDABLE HOUSING.
THERE IS EITHER DISSEMBLING OR
ADMITTING TO NOT CARING ABOUT
PUBLIC OPINION.
THAT'S MAYBE WORSE NEXT.
THE SECOND PRESENTATION YOU IN
NOVEMBER SHOULDN'T HAVE BEEN
DONE ENTIRELY IN CLOSED
SESSION.
I'M BETTING THERE IS FACTUAL
CONTENT WHICH WASN'T LEGAL
ADVICE.
WHY HIDE BEHIND THE PRIVILEGE
CURTAIN THAT POINT LEADS ME TO
BRUCE LAIDLAW'S FOR YOUR
LAWSUIT.
RAY THE USE OF THE HOUSING
VILLAGE ON THE WILLOTT THE CASE
GOT DISMISSED.
SOME SAY FRIVOLOUS IT WASN'T.
I READ THE BRIEFS.
I WATCHED THE HEARING.
I'M ASTONISHED.
THE CITY ATTORNEY ARGUED THE
REQUEST FOR BOND TEKS WAS VAGUE
AND ASKED THE COURT TO MAKE
LAIDLER FILE A MORE SPECIFIC
REQUEST.
REALLY THE CITY ATTORNEY AND
BOND COUNSEL CAN'T GET OUT THE
FILE AND PRODUCE NON PRIVILEGED
DOCUMENTS LIKE THE INDENTURES
IN THE PROSPECTUS.
WHY HIDE THEM?
MAYBE THEY DON'T SHOW WHAT YOU
WANT THEM TO SHOW.
THAT'S CLASSIC BAD FACE
STONEWALLING ALA NIXON AND
TRUMP.
IT'S SHAMEFUL AND THE JUDGE
DIDN'T EVEN ADDRESS THE
ARGUMENT THAT USING THE
MILITARY FUNDS THE WAY YOU
APPROVED WAS ILLEGAL AND VOIDED
THE PRIVILEGE.
YOU DIDN'T SAY ONE WORD ON THAT
TOPIC.
STRANGE AND I HOPE HE APPEALS
FINALLY MY SECOND TOPIC C11
SHOWS THAT OUR BEST VALUE
POLICY NEEDS WORK AND BID MORE
THAN A MILLION LOWER THAN THE
PONYO ROUGHLY 15 PERCENT A
MILLION DOLLARS AND SCORED AS
WELL OR BETTER ON EVERYTHING
EXCEPT WORKFORCE DEVELOPMENT IS
WHATEVER THE PONYO IS DOING
BETTER THAN JOHNSON IN THAT
CATEGORY REALLY WORTH A MILLION
DOLLARS ON A SINGLE PROJECT.
THE SCORING SYSTEM REALLY OUGHT
TO BE LOOKED AT AGAIN THAT
MILLION DOLLARS COULD BE USED
FOR EXAMPLE ON AFFORDABLE
HOUSING.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS KATHY
GRISWOLD.
MA'AM, CAN YOU PLEASE KEEP YOUR
MICROSOFT HOME PLEASE?
MA'AM, CAN YOU PLEASE MOVE A
SIGN OUT OF THE AISLE SO THAT
WE'RE NOT BLOCKING THE AISLE
FOR PEOPLE?
MA'AM, CAN YOU PLEASE MOVE YOUR
SIGN SO THAT YOU'RE NOT
BLOCKING ME OUT?
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
GOOD EVENING.
I TOO WANTED TO SPEAK ABOUT
SEET 11 WHICH IS THE CONTRACT.
I WON'T REPEAT WHAT'S ALREADY
BEEN SAID BUT I REALLY THINK
THAT WE NEED TO REASSESS BEST
VALUE BECAUSE THE PUBLIC VOTED
ON THIS AND I BELIEVE THE
INTENTION WAS TO HAVE UNIONIZED
WORKERS DOING OUR PROJECTS WERE
PAYING A PREMIUM FOR UNIONIZED
WORKERS.
YOU CAN CALL IT THE
APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM BUT WE
ALL KNOW THAT UNION CONTRACTORS
HAVE APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAMS
AND IN GENERAL NONUNION
EMPLOYERS DO NOT.
SO WE'RE PAYING A PREMIUM.
BUT WHAT'S HAPPENING IS THE
UNION COMPANY HAS THE
OPPORTUNITY TO SUBCONTRACT WITH
A NON UNIONIZED COMPANY.
SO IF WE'RE GOING TO PAY A
PREMIUM FOR UNIONIZED WORKERS,
WE NEED TO GET UNIONIZED
WORKERS.
AND SO LET'S REASSESS THIS
PROGRAM AND DETERMINE WHETHER
WE CAN TIGHTEN IT UP OR WE NEED
TO EVALUATE IT IN ANOTHER WAY.
THANKS.
MY OTHER TOPIC IS ABOUT
COMMUNICATIONS AND CURRENCY.
I BELIEVE THE WHOLE ESSI
PROJECT WAS VERY PAINFUL MORE
PAINFUL FOR SOME PEOPLE THAN
OTHERS BUT I HOPE IT WAS A
LEARNING OPPORTUNITY.
WE NEED TO CONTINUE TO KEEP
BETTER ALL OF US INCLUDING
MYSELF AND NOT ABOUT AS BUT
ABOUT THE SCHOOL CROSSWELL.
NOW THIS HAS BEEN GOING ON FOR
MANY, MANY MONTHS AND I THIS
RIGHT HERE IS A PLANT MAP AND I
HAVE TAKEN THE LIBERTY TO
ACTUALLY COLORADO THE PUBLIC
WALKWAYS.
I PROVIDED THE CITY WITH ONE
OF THESE ABOUT A YEAR AGO AND
IT WAS LOS I WENT DOWN TO THE
COUNTY AND I GOT ANOTHER ONE
TODAY SO I JUST
WANT TO
CONCLUDE AND I WILL GIVE THIS
TO THE CLERK SO IT CAN BE GIVEN
TO THE LEGAL DEPARTMENT AGAIN
LET'S ALL WORK TOGETHER.
LET'S HAVE A DIALOG.
LET'S NOT WAIT MONTHS TO GET
BACK TO ME OR FOR ME TO GET
BACK TO YOU.
WE NEED TO IMPROVE PEDESTRIAN
SAFETY.
HOBOKEN, NEW JERSEY HAS GONE
SEVEN YEARS WITH YOUR VISION
ZERO PROGRAM SEVEN YEARS
WITHOUT A PEDESTRIAN FATALITY.
WE CAN DO THE SAME THING AND WE
NEED TO UP OUR GAME.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS LISA
JAVINS.
THANK
JAVINS IS ON THE PHONE
PHONE NUMBER ENDING IN NINE TO
SIX CALL YOU CAN GO AHEAD STAR
SIX ON YOUR PHONE.
GO AHEAD AND OPEN AND PIGGY
BANK TO FUND AND STUDY AND TO
BE THE FOLLOW UP TO THE FIRST
STUDY THAT WAS DONE LAST YEAR
AND IT'S NECESSARY NEXT STEP ON
OUR WAY TO PUBLIC POWER WHICH I
FIRMLY BELIEVE WE NEED TO
CONTINUE TO EXPLORE THE
POSSIBILITY OF REPLACING DUTY
BECAUSE THE FOR PROFIT UTILITY
MODEL NO LONGER WORKS FOR ANN
ARBOR.
WE ALL KNOW THE MAIN OBLIGATION
IS TO ITS SHAREHOLDERS BECAUSE
IT'S A MONOPOLY.
IT DOESN'T HAVE TO CARE ABOUT
THE CUSTOMERS WHO HAVE MORE
ENERGY FOR ELECTRICITY AND WE
DON'T HAVE TO LIVE WITH IT
ANYMORE.
I THINK IT IS TERRIBLE
RELIABILITY.
IT'S POWER.
IT'S ALSO MORE EXPENSIVE THAN
ALMOST ANY OTHER MAJOR UTILITY
IN THE ENTIRE MIDWEST.
AND EVEN THOUGH EVERY STATE
REGULATED MONOPOLY EVERY TEN
YEARS OR SO THEY ALLOW THAT TO
INCREASE OUR RATES JUST LIKE IT
DID IN DECEMBER, NOBODY EVEN
ANNOUNCED PLANS TO UPGRADE OUR
GRID.
BUT GIVEN THE INCENTIVE
STRUCTURE IT OPERATES UNDER, I
DO NOT TRUST IT AND IF IT DOES
IT WILL BE AT OUR EXPENSE
ANYWAY WITH HIGHER AND HIGHER
RATES RIGHT FROM THE GROWTH IS
A DISASTER AN INCONVENIENCE?
IT'S ACTUALLY A SAFETY ISSUE.
FOR EXAMPLE I WAS APPROACHING
U.S. EMOTIONAL AND THE ROCK
AFTER DARK POWER HAD JUST GONE
FOR ABSOLUTELY NO REASON AND
THE STREETLIGHTS AND THE
TRAFFIC AND THE BIG CRASH RIGHT
IN FRONT OF ME AND HAD I HAVE
OVER TWENTY TO BE THIS WAY THE
AT THE BOTTOM OF THE PUBLIC
UTILITY I KNOW THAT WOULD
BETTER APPEAR TO PUBLIC UTILITY
MODEL COULD WORK FOR ONE OTHER
RESCUE COMMUNITY IN THE PAST
BECAUSE THEY ARE ACCOUNTABLE
AND ONLY RESIDENTS I'D LIKE YOU
TO WHERE OUR PEOPLE ARE NOW
PAYING FOR YOUR MONEY CHOCOLATE
DRINKS INSTEAD OF COMPLETE AND
ALL OF OUR DOLLARS AND PROFITS
EACH YEAR POLITICIAN THAT MONEY
THAT'S AVAILABLE IN OUR BUDGET
AT
THE BANK THAT WE WANT TO
FULLY INVESTIGATE THE COST FOR
OURSELVES.
THIRTY SECONDS TO GO TO OUR
CITY THAT MUCH IT'S A GOOD
INVESTMENT AND I THINK THAT THE
SAVINGS WOULD PICTURE OF WHAT
IS TAKING PLACE AT WOULD LOOK
LIKE IN THE THANK YOU OUR NEXT
THANK OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS
JUSTIN SHARP.
THANK YOU MAYOR TAYLOR AND
COUNCIL MEMBERS AND JUSTIN
SHARP THEY TEACH ENERGY JUSTICE
U OF M AND LEAD AN INITIATIVE
CALLED THE ENERGY EQUITY
PROJECT.
I'VE SPENT MORE THAN FIFTEEN
YEARS WORKING TO ADDRESS THE
SHORTCOMINGS AND NONE OF THOSE
HAS MOVED THE NEEDLE.
INITIALLY I WAS SKEPTICAL ABOUT
MUNICIPAL POWER BUT AFTER YEARS
OF RESEARCH I'VE COME AROUND
AND SEEN THAT ALMOST ALL OF THE
MUNICIPAL ELECTION CAMPAIGNS
RESULT IN CARBON REDUCTION,
FINANCIAL BENEFITS AND IMPROVED
RELIABILITY.
I SUPPORT THE WORK OF HARBOR
FOR PUBLIC POWER AND THE NEED
TO FUND A PHASE TWO FEASIBILITY
STUDY.
THE CITY ESTIMATED THAT LAST
WINTER'S ICE STORM WHICH KEPT
MY DAUGHTER OUT OF SCHOOL FOR
SIX DAYS MAY BE YOURS TO COST
OUR LOCAL GOVERNMENT TWO
MILLION DOLLARS.
THE FIRE DEPARTMENT STATED THAT
QUOTE IT HAD NO MEANS
OF EMERGENCY COMMUNICATION WITH
DTG DURING BOTH EVENTS ITS
PRIMARY REPORTING PHONE NO
PUBLIC SAFETY ONLINE PORTAL AND
EMERGENCY CALL NUMBER WERE
OFFLINE OR INEFFECTIVE.
I WANT TO EMPHASIZE JUST HOW
FAR OUTSIDE OF ACCEPTABLE
BEHAVIOR AND BASIC PERFORMANCE
STANDARDS STANDS EVEN COMPARED
TO ITS INVESTOR OWNED PEERS
DURING THE HEIGHT OF THE
PANDEMIC, D.T. RESUMED SHUTOFFS
MUCH FASTER THAN ANY OTHER
MICHIGAN UTILITY QUICKLY
REACHING MORE THAN 10000 PER
MONTH WHICH LANDED ON THE HALL
OF SHAME A NATIONAL LIST OF THE
TWELVE WORST OFFENDERS AT THE
SAME TIME ENROLLMENT AND DTRS
AFFORDABLE PAYMENT PLANS HAS
BEEN CUT BY HALF.
DTI HAS AN EXCELLENT TRACK
RECORD OF PUNISHING PEOPLE WHO
LIVE IN POVERTY IS THE ONLY
UTILITY IN MICHIGAN THAT TOLD
ITS CUSTOMERS DEBT TO A THIRD
PARTY COLLECTION AGENCY LESS
THAN TWO CENTS PER DOLLAR AND
REMOVED FOURTEEN HUNDRED
STREETLIGHTS IN A MAJORITY
BLACK CITY IN HIGHLAND PARK
PRIOR TO LAST FEBRUARY'S ICE
STORM DISCLOSED THAT IT HAD CUT
ONE HUNDRED AND TWENTY FOUR
MILLION MAINTENANCE EXPENSES
BUT IT DID MANAGE TO MAKE SEVEN
HUNDRED MILLION DOLLARS
DIVIDEND PAYMENTS TO INVESTORS
AND THEN TURNED AROUND TO
REQUEST SIX 22 MILLION IN RATE
INCREASES FROM ITS CUSTOMERS.
THE MATH HAS NEVER ADDED UP
MANIPULATES THE SYSTEM THAT IS
SUPPOSED TO REGULATE ITS
MONOPOLY BY POURING TENS
OF MILLIONS INTO DARK MONEY
CAMPAIGNS AND DIRECT
CONTRIBUTIONS TO POLITICAL
CANDIDATES CONSISTENTLY OPPOSES
THE SOLUTIONS WE NEED IN ANN
ARBOR LIKE COMMUNITY SOLAR AND
MISREPRESENTED BLACK AND BROWN
LED NONPROFITS AS OPPOSING
SOLAR WITHOUT THEIR KNOWLEDGE
OR CONSENT EVEN AMONG ITS
PEERS, DETI IS A ROGUE UTILITY
AND THE CONSEQUENCES TO WE THE
PEOPLE HAVE BEEN EVEN WORSE
THAN WE COULD HAVE IMAGINED IF
IT WERE NOT A MONOPOLY AND HAD
TO SUBMIT A PROPOSAL TO WORK
WITH THE CITY.
I'M CONFIDENT THAT YOU WOULD
REJECT IT FOR A SLEW
OF ENVIRONMENTAL, ETHICAL,
FINANCIAL AND PERFORMANCE
RELATED GROUNDS DOES HAVE AN
EXISTING CONTRACT AND IT'S
FAILING AT THE VERY LEAST WE
OWE IT TO THE ANAKA COMMUNITY
TO DO OUR DUE DILIGENCE AND
UNDERSTAND OUR FULL OPTIONS FOR
GETTING OUT OF THIS INSIDIOUS
RELATIONSHIP.
PLEASE FUND THE PHASE TWO
FEASIBILITIES STUDY.
THANK YOU.
SPEAKER IS CAN OFFER
HELLO.
MY NAME IS CAPTAIN PLUMBER AND
I'M A JUNIOR AT SKYLINE HIGH
SCHOOL AS I'M SURE ALL OF YOU
KNOW WE ARE IN A STATE
OF EMERGENCY.
THE CLIMATE IS BEING DESTROYED
AND FOSSIL FUELS AND
CARBON EMISSIONS HAVE NOT
STOPPED MY LIVES AND THE LIVES
OF MY CLASSMATES ARE DEFINED BY
THIS EMERGENCY.
WE KNOW THAT UNLESS STEPS ARE
TAKEN RIGHT NOW TO MAKE THE
CLIMATE MUCH, MUCH BETTER THAN
IT IS TO STOP CARBON EMISSIONS,
WE WILL INHERIT A BROKEN AND
DESTROYED WORLD.
WE DON'T WANT THIS.
AND ARBOR HAS DECLARED A
CLIMATE EMERGENCY.
I URGE ALL OF YOU TO TAKE A
STEP RIGHT NOW TOWARDS A
GREENER FUTURE FOR ME AND ALL
OF MY CLASSMATES FOR EVERYONE
APPROVE THE PHASE TWO
FEASIBILITY STUDY SO THAT WE
CAN MAKE A MUNICIPAL UTILITY
MUNICIPAL UTILITIES PROVIDE THE
BEST PATH TOWARDS CLEAN ENERGY
ENERGY THAT IS 100 PERCENT
RENEWABLE.
DTI HAS REJECTED TO TAKE THE
NECESSARY STEPS TOWARDS NEWBLE
ENERGY BECAUSE THERE TOO
FOCUSED ON TURNING A PROFIT.
WE MUST FOCUS ON PEOPLE PEOPLE
IN ANN ARBOR WHO ARE FREEZING
IN THEIR HOMES AS THE CLIMATE
IS DESTROYED BY THE SAME PEOPLE
WHO KEEP THEIR POWER OFF
PREVENT THEM FROM HAVING
HEATING AS PEOPLE AROUND THE
WORLD SUFFER FROM HURRICANES
AND FOREST FIRES WE HAVE WAITED
FOR FAR TOO LONG.
OUR HOUSE IS ON FIRE BUT YOU
CANNOT LOSE OF ANN ARBOR HAVE
THE POWER TO TAKE A STEP RIGHT
NOW TOWARD THE GREEN FUTURE
APPROVED THE PHASE TWO
FEASIBILITY STUDY.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS KEN GARBA
.
THANK YOU.
MAYOR TAYLOR, CAN EVERY SECOND
WARD THE BROKEN AND DESTROYED
WORLD THAT MISS PLATNER JUST
ELOQUENTLY DESCRIBED AS ONE
THAT SHE INHERITED FROM MY
GENERATION.
I CAN ONLY HOPE THAT IT'S NOT
TOO LATE FOR US TO MAKE UP FOR
THIS TERRIBLE LEGACY WHILE
FEASIBILITY STUDIES WE'VE
LEARNED TWO THINGS ABOUT THEM
ONE THEY'RE EXPENSIVE AND TWO
THEY'RE EXTREMELY BORING BUT
THEY'RE ALSO NECESSARY
INCLUDING A PHASE TWO STUDY.
THAT'S NOT JUST MY VIEW.
YOUR PHASE ONE CONSULTANTS
AGREE HERE'S WHAT THEY WROTE
QUOTE WE SUGGEST THAT THE CITY
AUTHORIZED A PHASE FEASIBILITY
STUDY TO CHARACTERIZE MORE
PRECISELY THE COSTS AND RISKS
OF THE NEW APPROACH AND THE USE
STANDING FOR A MUNICIPAL
ELECTRIC UTILITY FOR SHORT SOME
OF YOU MAY FAVOR THE SIU AND I
CERTAINLY DO BUT NOT THE MUNI
AGAIN FROM THE REPORT QUOTE THE
FEW OPTIONS FINANCIALLY
FEASIBLE, LESS RISKY AND SERVES
THE GENERAL ENERGY CRITERION
PRINCIPLES WELL BUT LIKELY HAVE
LESS LONG TERM POTENTIAL IN THE
MCU TO ADVANCE THE EIGHT TO
ZERO GOALS END QUOTE.
I
RECOMMEND DOING THE YOU AND
THE MUNI AT THE SAME TIME
BECAUSE THE MUNI IS A BETTER
CLIMATE SOLUTION EVEN THOUGH IT
WILL TAKE LONGER.
SO FOR THAT WE NEED PHASE TWO.
I REALIZE THAT NEW GENZE
ESTIMATED THREE HUNDRED TO FIVE
HUNDRED THOUSAND FACE TO PRICE
REPORTED AT YOUR SEPTEMBER
TWENTY SIX MEETING IS NOT IN
THE CITY'S CURRENT GENERAL FUND
BUDGET.
BUT I REMIND YOU THAT SEVEN I
SPOKE AT THE MAY FIRST BUDGET
PUBLIC HEARING FOR A TWO
HUNDRED FIFTY THOUSAND DOLLAR
BUDGET PLACEHOLDER FOR PHASE
TWO.
OK, WE WERE A LITTLE LOW ON
THAT BUT WE WERE IN THE
BALLPARK.
YOU PREFERRED TO WAIT AND SEE
WHAT PHASE TWO SAID WHILE THAT
STUDY IS IN AND IT RECOMMENDS
PHASE TWO THOUGH YOU DIDN'T SET
ASIDE THE MONEY WHEN YOU ASKED.
I'M CONFIDENT YOU CAN FIND IT
NOW MAYBE FROM THE SEVEN
MILLION DOLLARS THE CITY
RECEIVES ANNUALLY FROM THE
MILLAGE BUT THAT PART IS UP TO
YOU.
I'VE LOOKED AT THE AQAP TO
PROBABLY POWER SCOPE OF WORK
PROPOSAL AND THEY'VE DONE A
GOOD JOB ADDRESSING THE
QUESTIONS POSED ON SEPTEMBER
26TH YOU ASKED FOR ESTIMATES
FOR THE COST OF UPGRADING THE
INFRASTRUCTURE AND THE COST
OF LITIGATION TO SEE THE
PROCESS THROUGH TO COMPLETION
PLUS MORE LEGAL WORK AROUND THE
ISSUE OF STRANDED COSTS.
ALL THOSE AND MORE ARE IN
PROPOSAL.
SO I THINK YOU'VE GOT
EVERYTHING YOU NEED TO MOVE
FORWARD.
PHASE TWO WE CAN ADOPT THE SAME
SCHEDULE SPECIFIED FOR THE
UNARMED CRISIS RESPONSE RFP BY
MARCH PROPOSAL BY THE JULY
CONTRACT BY SEPTEMBER.
REMEMBER BORING CAN BE GOOD.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS GREG
WITTERING
.
THANK YOU COUNSEL.
MY NAME IS GREG WOODRING.
I'M THE PRESIDENT OF ANN ARBOR
FOR PUBLIC HOUR.
I LIVE AT TEN TWELVE WEST
CROSS.
I'M HERE LIKE SO MANY OTHERS A
DAY TO ASK YOU TO PURSUE A
PHASE TWO FEASIBILITY STUDY.
JUST A FEW REMINDERS ABOUT THE
PHASE ONE STUDY FINDINGS.
FOR ONE, THE PHASE ONE STUDY
CONCLUDED PRETTY CONCLUSIVELY
THAT WITHOUT A MUNICIPAL
UTILITY THERE IS NO PATH TO 100
PERCENT RENEWABLE POWER IN THE
CITY WITHOUT THE PURCHASE
OF ROCKS THOSE ROCKS ARE
ESTIMATED AT ABOUT EIGHT TO
TWENTY MILLION DOLLARS PER YEAR
.
FURTHERMORE, THE ONE OF THE
MAJOR CONCERNS THAT CAME OUT
OF THE PHASE ONE STUDY WAS THE
CONCERN THAT IT MAY TAKE LONGER
THAN OUR 2030 GOAL.
WELL, THAT IS TO BE SEEN THERE
IS ONE THING THAT WE HAVE
CONTROL OVER IN TERMS OF THE
TIMING OF HOW THIS GOES AND
THAT IS HOW LONG WE TAKE UNTIL
WE TAKE THE NEXT STEPS PURSUING
A PHASE TWO FEASIBILITY STUDY
QUICKER RATHER THAN TAKING
LONGER WILL ACCELERATE THE
TIMELINE TO US REACHING A FULL
MUNICIPAL UTILITY.
WE HOPE THAT YOU FOLLOW THE
RECOMMENDATION OF THE PHASE TO
PHASE ONE FEASIBILITY STUDY
FROM THE CONTRACTORS THAT
RECOMMENDED THAT YOU PURSUE
THIS.
WE UNDERSTAND THERE ARE
CONCERNS ABOUT THE COST
OF MUNICIPAL ISING THE PHASE
ONE STUDY ABSOLUTELY DID
OUTLINE A VERY WIDE RANGE
OF POTENTIAL COSTS FOR
ACQUIRING DTRS ASSETS AND
ESTABLISHING THE MUNICIPAL
UTILITY ON THE HIGH END.
IT VERY LIKELY IS FINANCIALLY
UNFEASIBLE.
HOWEVER ON THE LOW END IT IS
ESTIMATING ABOUT A 10 PERCENT
DROP IN OUR ELECTRICAL BILLS
DAY ONE THAT WILL CONTINUE TO
DECREASE.
THAT IS A HUGE UPSIDE FOR THE
PEOPLE OF ANN ARBOR AND IT
WOULD BE WRONG TO NOT PURSUE AN
OPTION THAT COULD RESULT IN
INCREDIBLE RELIABILITY
INCREASES DECREASES IN OUR COST
OF OUR ELECTRICITY AS WELL AS
ALLOWING US TO TRULY AND
ACTUALLY REACH OUR CLIMATE
GOALS.
THERE HAVE BEEN OVER TWO
HUNDRED EMAILS SENT TO YOU OVER
THE LAST FEW WEEKS ASKING YOU
TO PURSUE THIS STUDY FOR
ESTIMATED COST FROM THE
CONTRACTORS OF THREE ONE
HUNDRED THREE HUNDRED FIVE
HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS.
YOU WOULD BE ABLE TO GET THIS
STUDY WELL THAT SOUNDS LIKE A
LOT OF MONEY LIKELY TO YOU AND
ME IN TERMS OF THE CITY BUDGET
THAT IS VERY SMALL CITY HAS
UPWARDS OF FIVE HUNDRED MILLION
DOLLARS IN REVENUE.
THEY HAVE ONE HUNDRED AND
THIRTY FOUR BILLION DOLLAR
GENERAL DISCRETIONARY FUND.
WE'RE TALKING ABOUT LESS THAN
ONE HALF OF ONE PERCENT OF THE
FUND IN ORDER TO PAY FOR THIS
STUDY.
IT IS AN EQUIVALENT AMOUNT
OF MONEY AS WHAT YOU ARE
CURRENTLY CONSIDERING PROPOSING
TO SPEND ON GOLF EQUIPMENT.
SO WE REALLY HOPE THAT YOU WILL
PURSUE THIS NEXT STEP AND FULLY
INVESTIGATE THIS REALLY
BENEFICIAL OPTION FOR ANN ARBOR
.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS KATHLEEN
MURPHY
.
MURPHY IS ON ZUM OH NO COLLAR
WITH THE PHONE NUMBER ENDING IN
TWO FOUR OR FIVE STAR SIX I
YOUR PHONE GO AHEAD
AND YOU.
YES, YOU CAN ONE CITY COUNCIL
MEMBER MAY OR JUNE AND
ATTENDANCE AT THE MEETING I'M
GUESSING YOU SEE I LIVE AT 315
AND THIS IS THREE IN AN HOUR
AND COMING TO SUPPORT A CITY OR
A MUNICIPAL ZATION ELECTRICAL
UTILITY, A CONCEPT THAT IS
BEING ADVOCATED BY THE
INEVITABLE PUBLIC POWER
ORGANIZATION WHICH I ALSO
SUPPORT SINCE JULY TWENTY ONE
AND AND OUR ENERGY COMMISSION
FIRST OF ALL RESOLUTION FOR
INVISIBLE ELECTRIC UTILITY AND
OTHER PUBLIC POWER AND CITIZENS
HAVE BEEN CONSIDERING THE
MUNICIPAL ZATION OPTION AND A
RELIABLE ELECTRIC ELECTRICITY
SUPPLY SEPTEMBER TWENTY THREE
CONSULTING FIRM BELIEVE ENERGY
LABORATORY ENTITLED 100 PERCENT
RENEWABLE RENEWABLE ENERGY
ANALYSIS CONCLUSION WITH THE
FOLLOWING WE SUGGEST THAT THE
CITY AUTHORIZED A PHASE ONE
FEASIBILITY STUDY TO
CHARACTERIZE MORE PRECISELY THE
COST AND RISKS OF THE MUNICIPAL
ELECTRIC UTILITY.
AND THIS WAS A GOAL THAT WAS
QUOTED EARLIER BY KEN GARBER.
THE MAIN OBJECTIVE OF THE EPA
TO STUDY WOULD BE TO ARRIVE
TECHNICALLY AND LEGALLY
DEFENSIBLE VALUATION OF LOCAL
DISTRIBUTION ASSETS IN ORDER TO
PREPARE FOR AN ACQUISITION
INFRASTRUCTURE.
ITS ESTIMATED COST WOULD BE
BETWEEN THREE HUNDRED AND FIVE
HUNDRED THOUSAND DOLLARS.
WE HAD A FULL ELECTRIC UTILITY
IN THE WE HAVE TO HAVE A PHASE
TWO FEASIBILITY STUDY IT A AND
ACCURATE EXAMINATION AND
VALUATION OF THIS
INFRASTRUCTURE A LEGAL ANALYSIS
THAT PROVIDES MUCH MORE PRECISE
ESTIMATES OF THE COST
OF ACQUISITION BEYOND THE
PHYSICAL ASSETS OPPORTUNITIES
TO UPGRADE THE SYSTEM FOR
IMPROVE RELIABILITY AND TO
INCORPORATE RENEWABLE POWER
GENERATION INTERESTED IN HAVING
MUNICIPAL ELECTRIC UTILITY TO
REPLACE OUR CURRENT INVESTOR ON
ELECTRICAL UTILITY COMPANY, IT
IS NECESSARY TO HAVE A PLACE TO
DO THIS STUDY AND I SINCERELY
HOPE YOU CAN SUPPORT THIS
PROPOSAL.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS GUY FESCUE
.
THANK YOU MAYOR TAYLOR AND PULL
THIS OFF.
MY NAME IS TESLA.
I LIVE IN WARD FIVE.
I'M HERE TONIGHT AS COUNSEL TO
FUND A PHASE OF PHASE TWO
FEASIBILITY STUDY FOR MUNICIPAL
ELECTRIC UTILITY AS DESCRIBED
IN ANN ARBOR FOR PUBLIC POWER'S
RECENT PROPOSAL.
THE STUDY WOULD PRODUCE
INFORMATION THAT COUNCIL AND
VOTERS NEED IN ORDER TO MAKE
SOUND DECISION ON THE FUTURE
SOURCE OF OUR ELECTRICITY AND
SO THAT WOULD ANSWER SOME
QUESTIONS.
BUT WHAT DO WE ALREADY KNOW?
WE KNOW THAT A MUNICIPAL
ELECTRIC UTILITY IS AFFORDABLE.
WE COULD BUY ITS POLES AND
WIRES AND THEN UPGRADE THEM
BECAUSE WE COULD FINANCE WITH
MUNICIPAL BONDS AND OUR
ELECTRIC BILLS WOULD PAY OFF
THOSE BONDS.
NO TAX INCREASE WOULD BE NEEDED
UNLIKE WITH OTHER PLANS.
THAT'S WHAT WINTER PARK,
FLORIDA DID.
THEY BURIED THEIR WIRES WHICH
IS MUCH MORE EXPENSIVE THAN
DOING PROPER MAINTENANCE ON
POLES AND WIRES AND BONDS PAID
FOR THE WHOLE THING.
WE KNOW THAT A MUNICIPAL
ELECTRIC UTILITY SUCH AS ANN
ARBOR FOR PUBLIC POWER PROPOSES
IS THE ONLY PLAN THAT CAN
DELIVER ONE HUNDRED PERCENT
RENEWABLE POWER.
WE KNOW THAT THIS UTILITY COULD
BE COMPLETED CLOSE TO TWENTY
THIRTY MAYBE ONE YEAR UTILITY
LEGALLY MAYBE TWO YEARS IN
COURT TO ESTABLISH A PRICE FOR
DTRS POLES AND WIRES, MAYBE ONE
YEAR TO PUT THE PRICE BEFORE
THE VOTERS IN A BALLOT
INITIATIVE AND MAYBE TWO YEARS
TO BUILD THE UTILITY.
THAT'S ABOUT SIX YEARS.
THAT'S ABOUT TWENTY THIRTY.
THAT'S PRETTY GOOD.
WE KNOW THE STRONGEST INCENTIVE
IS TO PRODUCE PROFITS EVEN IF
IT HAS TO CUT BACK ON
MAINTENANCE.
WE KNOW THIS BECAUSE DTG TOLD
US AND IT'S ON AN EARNINGS CALL
ON FEBRUARY TWENTY THIRD TWENTY
TWENTY THREE DURING THE BIG ICE
STORM YOU CAN LOOK IT UP ON
THEIR WEBSITE.
YOU KNOW DATA IS MAINTENANCE IS
REALLY UNACCEPTABLE AND WE'VE
EXPERIENCED THAT MANY TIMES SO
WE KNOW THE DTI MUST BE MUST GO
ANY PLAN THAT INCLUDES DTI AS A
NON STARTER
.
WE KNOW THAT COUNCIL NEEDS TO
HEAR FROM ALL SIDES ON THIS
QUESTION.
I HOPE THAT THE COUNCIL WILL
SOON HOLD HOLD A TOWN HALL
DEBATE.
WE KNOW THAT ANN ARBOR FOR
PUBLIC POWERS PROPOSAL DOES NOT
INCLUDE OFFSETS SUCH AS THE
EIGHT TO TWENTY MILLION YEARLY
INDEX THAT THE CITY WOULD HAVE
TO PURCHASE AS IN ANOTHER PLAN.
IN CLOSING, I URGE CITY COUNCIL
TO APPROVE THE PHASE TWO
FEASIBILITY STUDY AS DESCRIBED
AND ABOVE FOR PUBLIC POWERS
PROPOSAL SO WE CAN GET ANSWERS
TO THE IMPORTANT QUESTIONS
RAISED IN THE PROPOSAL.
THANK YOU.
THANK.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS TAKALA
EVENING MAYOR TAYLOR AND MADAM
CLERK CITY ADMINISTRATOR,
COUNCIL MEMBERS AND OF COURSE
OF THE PEOPLE HERE TODAY IN
PERSON AND APPEARING BY PHONE
AND BY ZUM.
MY NAME IS TAMARA GARWOOD.
I LIVE IN THE FIFTH WARD AND I
AM THE MAGISTRATE FOR THE
FIFTEENTH DISTRICT COURT OF ANN
ARBOR AND I HAVE SERVED IN THAT
POSITION FOR EIGHT YEARS FOR
THE CITY I LIVE.
I'VE LIVED HERE IN ANN ARBOR
FOR TWENTY FIVE YEARS AND I'VE
BEEN AN ATTORNEY FOR TWENTY
FIVE YEARS AS WELL WITH THE
RETIREMENT OF JUDGE JOSEPH
BURKE THERE WILL BE A VACANCY
IN OUR COURT HERE IN ANN ARBOR
AND I AM RUNNING FOR THAT
POSITION WITH THE SUPPORT OF MY
FAMILY, FRIENDS, COLLEAGUES AND
COMMUNITY.
THE PRIMARY IS IN AUGUST AND
THE GENERAL ELECTION OF COURSE
WILL BE IN NOVEMBER.
MY EXPERIENCE KNOWLEDGE,
COMPASSION AND INTEGRITY ARE ON
DISPLAY EVERY DAY AS I SIT ON
THE BENCH HERE IN THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR I REVIEW AND SIGN
SEARCH WARRANTS, COMPLAINTS AND
ARREST WARRANTS FOR 14
DIFFERENT AGENCIES OUR LOCAL
AREA I CONDUCT ARRAIGNMENTS.
I CONDUCT TRIALS ON SMALL
CLAIMS MATTERS, EMPOWERMENT
CASES.
I HANDLE INFORMAL HEARINGS WHEN
YOU GET A PARKING TICKET OR YOU
GET A GARBAGE TICKET OR THE
POLICE PULL YOU OVER FOR
VARIOUS REASONS, YOU COME TO ME
AND EITHER IN PERSON OR IN
WRITING WE TAKE CARE OF YOUR
CASE.
I HANDLE SENTENCING ON MANY
MISDEMEANOR MATTERS AS WELL AS
MOST OF YOU LIKELY KNOW EVERY
DAY OF THE YEAR WE HAVE COURT
HERE IN WASHTENAW COUNTY AND
THAT FALLS ON THE MAGISTRATES
OF OUR COUNTY TO APPEAR FOR
THOSE COURT HEARINGS ON
WEEKENDS AND HOLIDAYS.
SO EVERY THIRD WEEKEND AND
HOLIDAY I AM OFF TO THE SERVICE
CENTER TO CONDUCT HEARINGS ON
THE MOST SERIOUS TYPE
OF MATTERS THAT WE HAVE BECAUSE
WE AS A COUNTY DO NOT LEAVE
PEOPLE SITTING IN JAIL WHEN
WE'RE AVAILABLE TO TAKE CARE
OF THEM.
I ALSO HAVE THE PLEASURE
OF OFFICIATING WEDDINGS AND
I'VE DONE ABOUT A THOUSAND
WEDDINGS IN THE CITY I CAN
HANDLE HUNDREDS OF COURT
MATTERS IN A SINGLE WEEK.
MY COMMITMENT TO JUSTICE IS
ROOTED IN MY DEEP BELIEF IN
PUBLIC SERVICE MUCH AS YOURS
PROTECTING THE RIGHTS OF THOSE
BEFORE ME IS PARAMOUNT BUT YET
NEVER FAR FROM MY DECISIONS ARE
THE NEEDS OF THE PEOPLE OF THE
CITY OF ANN ARBOR AND THOSE WHO
COME HERE DO NOT INTERRUPT
SPEAKERS AGAIN PLEASE AND THOSE
WHO COME HERE FOR WORK
EDUCATION, MEDICAL CARE AND
RECREATION I'VE SEEN FIRSTHAND
WHAT I CAN DO WITH A SINGLE
COURT APPEARANCE.
I CAN CHANGE THE LIFE OF ONE
OF OUR CITIZENS WITH MY
COMPASSION, JUDICIAL
TEMPERAMENT AND EXPERIENCE
OF BEING ON THE BENCH.
I SEE THE DIFFERENCE I'VE MADE
IN OUR COMMUNITY AND I LOOK
FORWARD TO EXPANDING THAT
DIFFERENCE AS THE NEXT JUDGE
OF THE 15TH DISTRICT COURT WE
HAVE BALLOTS HERE IF ANYONE IS
WILLING TO SIGN I'M SORRY WE
HAVE PETITIONS IF ANYONE'S
WILLING TO SIGN THOSE.
I APPRECIATE YOUR SUPPORT ON A
PETITION AND I WELCOME YOUR
SIGNATURE AND HOPEFULLY YOUR
VOTE AS MY CAMPAIGN CONTINUES
AGAIN TOMORROW.
CARWOOD I'M RUNNING FOR
FIFTEENTH DISTRICT COURT JUDGE.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS PARNELL
CARTER.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS PARNELL.
I'M HERE TO SPEAK ABOUT THE
FEASIBILITY STUDY AS WELL.
ONE OF THE REASONS WHY I WOULD
LIKE TO SEE ANN ARBOR MOVE AWAY
FROM PTC IS THAT DTC HAS PLANS
TO CONTINUE USING BACK TO GAS
FOR DECADES TO COME WITH NO END
IN SIGHT.
YALE UNIVERSITY HAS AN ONLINE
MAGAZINE FROM THEIR SCHOOL
OF ENVIRONMENT AND THEY HAVE A
GOOD ARTICLE ABOUT FRACKING
THAT I'LL JUST READ SOME PARTS
OF IT SAYS A PAPER BY THE YALE
SCHOOL OF PUBLIC HEALTH THIS
SUMMER SHOWED THAT CHILDREN
LIVING NEAR PENN LIVING NEAR
PENNSYLVANIA WELLS THAT USE
FRACKING TO HARVEST NATURAL GAS
ARE TWO TO THREE TIMES MORE
LIKELY TO CONTRACT A FORM
OF CHILDHOOD LEUKEMIA THAN
THEIR PEERS WHO LIVE FARTHER
AWAY.
THAT FOLLOWED A HARVARD STUDY
IN JANUARY THAT FOUND ELDERLY
PEOPLE LIVING NEAR OR DOWNWIND
FROM GAS PADS HAVE A HIGHER
RISK OF PREMATURE DEATH THAN
SENIORS WHO DON'T LIVE IN THAT
PROXIMITY.
IT GOES ON TO SAY IN APRIL THE
NONPROFIT PHYSICIANS FOR SOCIAL
RESPONSIBILITY AND CONCERNED
HEALTH PROFESSIONALS OF NEW
YORK PUBLISHED ITS MOST RECENT
COMPENDIUM OF INVESTIGATIONS
INTO THE RISKS AND HARMS LINKED
WITH FRACKING SINCE TWENTY
FOURTEEN THE COMPENDIUM HAS
TALLIED TWO THOUSAND TWO
HUNDRED THIRTY NINE PEER
REVIEWED PAPERS THAT FOUND
EVIDENCE OF HARM WITH NEARLY A
THOUSAND OF THOSE PAPERS
PUBLISHED SINCE TWENTY EIGHTEEN
GOES ON TO SAY LATER ACCORDING
TO A FIVE HUNDRED SEVENTY SEVEN
PAGE DOCUMENT SEVENTY NINE
PERCENT OF US NATURAL GAS AND
65 PERCENT OF CRUDE OIL IS NOW
PRODUCED BY FRACKING WITH MORE
THAN SEVENTEEN POINT SIX
MILLION PEOPLE LIVING NEAR
WITHIN A MILE OF FRACKED OIL
GAS WELL THE RESULT SAYS THE
REPORT AS A PUBLIC HEALTH
CRISIS.
DESPITE ALL OF THIS EVIDENCE,
DTL DOESN'T SEEM TO HAVE A
PROBLEM WITH INVESTING IN GAS
FOR DECADES TO COME.
NO PLANS TO EVER GET OFF OF IT
AND I WOULD LIKE TO SEE ANN
ARBOR TOTALLY REMOVE ITSELF
FROM FRACKING AND HAVING
MUNICIPAL ELECTRIC UTILITY IS A
GREAT WAY TO DO THAT.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS BLAINE
COLEMAN
THANKS TO CHAIRMAN
CHAIRWOMAN CARTER FOR REMINDING
US THAT THIS IS A BLACK HISTORY
MONTH.
MALCOLM X USED TO SAY YOU
NOTICE THEY GAVE US THE
SHORTEST MONTH WE OWE MORE THAN
WE CAN EVER REPAY TO MALCOLM
AND TO THE BLACK
REVOLUTIONARIES WHO HE LED
MALCOLM WAS A CONSTANT REMINDER
OF THE GENOCIDE THAT THIS
GOVERNMENT COMMITTED IN THE
PAST AND IN THE PRESENT AND
INCLUDING THE GENOCIDE OF THE
CONGO WHICH CONTINUE THE
GENOCIDE AGAINST VIETNAM WHICH
KILLED MILLIONS OF VIETNAMESE
PEOPLE, WHICH THIS GOVERNMENT
IS GUILTY OF INCLUDING THE
GENOCIDE AGAINST THE
PALESTINIAN PEOPLE.
MALCOLM WAS THE FIRST MAJOR
PUBLIC FIGURE THAT I EVER HEARD
OF WHO WROTE STRONGLY AND
PUBLICLY AGAINST THE MASS
MURDER OF PALESTINIANS WHICH
ISRAEL COMMITTED.
THAT WAS IN NINETEEN SIXTY FOUR
WHEN NOBODY WAS TALKING ABOUT
IT HERE BECAUSE OF MALCOLM AND
A FEW OTHER BLACK
REVOLUTIONARIES LIKE F MINOR
LIKE STOKELY CARMICHAEL LATER
KNOWN AS KWAME TUREI AND THEN
THE WHOLE BLACK PANTHER PARTY
AND THEN MANY MORE BLACK
REVOLUTIONARIES THIS IS THE
ONLY WAY THAT THE PALESTINIAN
FREEDOM MOVEMENT EVER REACHED
THE UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.
NOBODY WOULD HAVE KNOWN ABOUT
IT OTHERWISE.
THERE ARE MANY, MANY REASONS
THAT WE OWE MALCOLM A BIG DEBT
AND MANY REASONS WE OWE ALL THE
BLACK REVOLUTIONARIES OF THE
NINETEEN SIXTIES A BIG, BIG
DEBT WITHOUT WE WOULDN'T KNOW A
THING ABOUT EMPIRE, ABOUT
IMPERIALISM AND ABOUT THE NEED
TO STOP IT.
THIS CITY COUNCIL LIKE THE
RICHMOND, CALIFORNIA CITY
COUNCIL HAS A DUTY TO APPROVE A
RESOLUTION AGAINST MILITARY AID
TO ISRAEL.
THIS CITY COUNCIL LIKE THE
MINNEAPOLIS CITY COUNCIL HAS A
DUTY TO APPROVE A RESOLUTION
AGAINST MILITARY AID TO ISRAEL
.
DO IT.
>> DON'T WAIT FOR TWO HUNDRED
PEOPLE TO COME POURING IN HERE.
IT TOOK TWO HUNDRED PEOPLE
POURING INTO THE CITY COUNCIL
CHAMBER FOR THIS CITY COUNCIL
EVEN RECOGNIZED THAT
PALESTINIANS ARE HUMAN BEINGS
TOOK THEM A LONG TIME.
DON'T WAIT FOR TWO HUNDRED
PEOPLE TO COME IN HERE AGAIN
APPROVE THE RESOLUTION AGAINST
MILITARY AID TO ISRAEL.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS MOTION
ANTHONY .
HELLO.
NO, IT STRENGTHENS MY HEART TO
SEE STUDENTS HERE WHO HAVE COME
TO SUPPORT PALESTINIAN HUMAN
RIGHTS.
IT STRENGTHENS MY WILL TO FIGHT
BACK WHEN I SEE STUDENTS HERE
WHO COME WITH THEIR HEART OPEN
TO HUMANITY RIGHT NOW AS WE
SPEAK, HUNDREDS OF TRUCKS ARE
HELD UP OUTSIDE OF BORDER WITH
GAZA IN RAFAH HELD BY ISRAELI
MILITARY.
THEY ARE NOT ALLOWED IN A FEW
FEET INSIDE PEOPLE ARE DYING
OF HUNGER, STARVATION
.
ISRAEL IS USING STARVATION AS A
MEANS TO ANNIHILATE PEOPLE
OF PALESTINE IS REALLY FORCES
HAVE MADE A COMPLETE RUIN
OF GAZA.
THIS CITY COUNCIL SIGNED A
RESOLUTION FOR A BILATERAL
CEASEFIRE WHICH MEANS NOTHING
AFTER TWO THREE HUNDRED PEOPLE
SPENT HOURS AND HOURS HERE AND
PUSHED FOR THIS CITY COUNCIL TO
RECOGNIZE PEOPLE OF PALESTINE
ARE HUMAN AND THEY SHOULD NOT
BE TREATED THIS WAY WITH THE
DOLLARS THAT ARE POURED INTO
THE POCKETS OF THOSE FILTHY
GENOCIDAL MANIACS OF ISRAELI
GOVERNMENT.
UNITED STATES IS RIGHT NOW
SPENDING BILLIONS OF DOLLARS ON
UKRAINIAN WAR WHICH THEY
STARTED AND THEY PUSHED FOR IT
AND THEY ARE SPENDING BILLIONS
OF DOLLARS IN ISRAEL SO THAT
ISRAELIS CAN CONTINUE TO MURDER
PALESTINIANS.
IS THIS THE KIND OF PEOPLE WE
WANT TO BE KNOWN TO THE WORLD
BEFORE THIS GENOCIDE AMERICANS
WOULD ASK WHY DO THEY HATE US?
WHAT DO YOU THINK NOW?
DO YOU THINK THE WORLD IS GOING
TO LOVE YOU FOR THE GENOCIDE
THAT YOU ENABLE MONTH AFTER
MONTH AFTER MONTH?
NO, I HAVE NEWS FOR YOU.
THE WORLD HATES YOU ANY MORE
THAN HATE YOU.
WE WANT A STOP TO THE US HELP
FOR THIS GENOCIDE.
WE WANT TO STOP MILITARY AID TO
ISRAEL.
WE WANT TO SEE PEOPLE WHO
REPRESENT PEOPLE OF THE UNITED
STATES TO BE HUMANS, NOT
MONSTERS THAT THEY ARE RIGHT
NOW.
WE CAN DO THAT.
WE CAN VOTE YOU OUT AND WE CAN
VOTE IN HUMAN BEINGS AND WE
WILL HAVE THIRD GRADERS THAT
ARE GOING TO SCHOOL RIGHT.
THAT WE SEE THAT ISRAEL I
PROMISE YOU THAT ISRAEL IS
KILLING ITSELF.
WELL, IT'S NOTHING IT'S GOING
TO A MORE PEOPLE THAT CAN MAKE
US THAT IS STATE BEGINS TO
PEOPLE PEOPLE AND FEED IT TO
THE SEA.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS TOM
STEMBERG AND SAID I KNOW YOU
THINK I AM THANK YOU ME OUR
NEXT SPEAKER IS TOM STOLLBERG.
MR STOLLBERG IS ON ZUM OH NO
FIVE THREE FOUR MUTE YOUR PHONE
ASTAR SIX TIME YOUR PHONE GO
AHEAD AND COME FORWARD GOING IN
LOWERTOWN IN A NO NO WAY LIKE
THE FIRST SPEAKER I LIKE
PROBABLY RECOGNIZE FOR COUNCIL
MEMBERS THAT CAME OUT PUBLICLY
AGAINST THE SPECIAL RESORTS
PROPOSAL THAT MEMBER FOR DENHA
ACKMANN AND I THANK YOU NUMBER
TWO I RECENTLY SENT YOU A BRIEF
LETTER IN SUPPORT OF THE FACE
TO CAPITAL CITY AND MUNICIPAL
ELECTRIC UTILITY AND I ECHO THE
COMMENTS BY THE CALLER NUMBER
THREE ITEM THREE THE NATURE
MAJOR THAT IT'S ONE LOCAL
PRESSURES PLEASE APPROVE THIS
EXPENDITURE ITEM BEFORE AND SEE
ONE I'M NOT MAKING ANY SPECIFIC
ACCUSATIONS HERE.
RATHER I WAS TAUGHT TO BELIEVE
THAT EVEN THE APPEARANCE
OF IMPROPRIETY MUST TO BE
AVOIDED.
I WENT TO CONSULT WITH A LARGE
PART OF THE FIRM THAT IS WHAT
THEY CALL THAT COMPANY NO
LONGER EXISTS BECAUSE
OF IMPROPRIETY.
I WORK FOR A SMALL COMPANY THAT
PROVIDED SOFTWARE TO
MUNICIPALITIES.
AVOIDING EVEN THE SLIGHTEST
APPEARANCE OF IMPROPRIETY IS
EVIDENT IN THAT ENVIRONMENT.
WHEN WE HAD MUNICIPAL EMPLOYEES
INTO THE OFFICE TO GIVE THEM A
TABLE FOR DEMONSTRATION PROBLEM
NOT EVEN LET SUPPLY THE REPORT
THINGS LIKE THAT WOULDN'T BE A
PROBLEM.
NO BIG DEAL BUT SOMETHING ONE
ABSOLUTE ZERO NO QUESTIONS, NO
SLIPPERY NO DOUBT
OF IMPROPRIETY EVEN POSSIBLE
FACE FACTS YOU DECIDE YOUR VOTE
TONIGHT IF THERE'S NO
APPEARANCE OF ANY IMPROPRIETY.
DENHA IS NOMINATED TO SERVE ON
THE CITY'S PLANNING COMMISSION
.
THAT BODY HAS QUITE A LOT
OF RESPONSIBILITY INCLUDING THE
POWERFUL LOBBIES THAT NO LONGER
COME TO CITY COUNCIL FOR A
PUBLIC HEARING OR VOTE BECAUSE
OF RECENT STRUCTURAL CHANGES
APPROVED BY CITY COUNCIL WE
CALL COMPREHENSIVE PLAN
REVISION UNDERWAY THE PLANNING
COMMISSIONERS WILL HAVE A LARGE
PART TO PLAY IN A LONG TERM
IMPACT OF CITY THEY ANNOUNCED
RECENTLY DONATED FIVE HUNDRED
DOLLARS TO THE MAYOR'S NEW
POLITICAL ACTION COMMITTEE.
THAT PAC HAS ALREADY
DISTRIBUTED A THOUSAND TO
GENERAL ELECTION FIFTY SEVEN
HUNDRED FIFTY DOLLARS ERIKA
CAMPAIGN AND A THOUSAND
DOLLARS.
SO THIS CAMPAIGN IN THE LAST
ELECTION CYCLE THEN ADDED THIS
WHOLE WAS THE FIFTH HIGHEST
DONOR BY HOUSE TO THE MAYOR AND
THE FIVE COUNCIL MEMBERS
OBVIOUSLY ALL OF WHOM ARE NOW
SERVING ON CITY COUNCIL FOR
HELP.
THOSE DONORS WERE TO LABOR
PARTY AND TO HOUSEHOLD OF THE
FORMER OWNERS, A LOCAL COMPANY
WHO SOLD THE COMPANY FOR A LOT
OF MONEY TO A BIG COMPANY THEN
OUT OF THIS HOUSEHOLD WITH THE
LARGEST DONOR TO THE MAYOR AND
ITS PLACE AFTER THOSE FOR
THIRTY SECONDS THESE THESE ARE
FACTS YOU DECIDE TO THAT EXCEPT
FOR NOT HAVING EVEN THE
APPEARANCE OF IMPROPRIETY.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS STEPHEN
BEATTY
.
THE COLORADO PHONE NUMBER AND
AGAIN ONE FOUR THREE FOUR STAR
SIX ON YOUR PHONE.
MR BEATTIE, IF YOU'RE ON ZOOM A
STAR ON MUTE YOUR PHONE
MR
BEATTIE.
GO AHEAD
.
>> UH, I REALLY I'M SORRY ABOUT
THAT.
BUT INSTANTLY THANKS TO THE
MAYOR AND COUNCIL AND EVERYONE
RESPONSIBLE FOR HELPING TO
BUILD THE SITE, UH, IT WAS
DIRECTLY RELATED TO ANY OF THE
AGENDA ITEMS FOR TONIGHT.
I MAYBE YOU ABOUT THAT ALREADY
BUT I WANT TO MAKE A COMMENT
ABOUT SO TRY AND KEEP AN
INTERPRETATIVE CURRENT
RESIDENT.
BUT I'VE ALSO BEEN A GRADUATE
STUDENT AT THE UNIVERSITY
OF DELAWARE.
I'VE HAD THE PRIVILEGE
OF LIVING THERE AND IT'S LIKE
PUTTING SIMPLE ENERGY CONCEPTS
DIRECTLY FROM THE POLICY
RESEARCHER I THAT PRODUCED
INSTITUTIONAL SIDE AND
SUBSEQUENT ELECTION STABILITY
WHICH IS THE YOU MAY HAVE HEARD
ABOUT LIKE IN DELAWARE BUT ALSO
WASHINGTON DC PENNSYLVANIA AND
SO SCREWED KOREA.
SO IT WOULD JUST BE A FEW
THINGS ON THAT THE CITY IS
CURRENTLY CONSIDERING.
I JUST CONTEXT THAT THE
INVASION HAS ACTUALLY BEEN
TRIED IN MUNICIPAL CONTEXT.
WE'RE ACTUALLY PRODUCED AT AT A
LARGE SCALE JUST IN THE COMING
MONTHS IF YOU COULD HEAR MORE
ABOUT ALTERNATIVE STRUCTURES
THAT MIGHT BE FEASIBLE FOR
SUPPORTING LIKE TRADITIONAL
TRANSPORTATION THE ENTIRE
CONTEXT WILL REMAIN OPEN TO IT
BECAUSE I BELIEVE IT'LL
PROBABLY BE SIGNIFICANTLY
HELPFUL EVEN DISTRIBUTION
SYSTEM ACCESS FOR THIS CITY IS
ONE AND ESPECIALLY FOR THE
OUTSIDE THE PROJECT AND FOR A
HATES TO SEE.
I THANK YOU SO MUCH IN TROUBLE
.
APPRECIATE IT.
THANK YOU.
WE HAVE HAD PUBLIC COMMENT FOR
FORTY FIVE MINUTES LEADING.
WE HAVE ONE PUBLIC SPEAKER LEFT
WHICH WILL BE AVAILABLE FOR
SPEAKING AT PUBLIC COMMENT
OVERFLOW AFTER THE BALANCE
OF THE MEETING IS HAS BEEN
PROCESSED BY THEIR
COMMUNICATIONS TODAY FROM
COUNCIL COUNCIL MEMBERS ON.
SO I'D LIKE TO SPEAK TO THE
SPORTS ILLUSTRATED PROPOSAL AS
IT WAS PRESENTED LAST WEEK AND
THE CITY'S PROPENSITY TO
PROTECT PARKING LOT SO THAT
THEY REMAIN AS PARKING LOTS
PARK IN PERPETUITY OR BE
REIMAGINED IN A NUMBER OF WAYS
PAINFULLY, INCREASINGLY AND
MORE PRESSINGLY AS CONTRIBUTING
MUCH NEEDED HOUSING TO PLAY IN
THIS REIMAGINING I HOPE WE CAN
DIRECTLY CONFRONT THE ECONOMIC
REALITIES OF DOWNTOWN AS SMALL
LOCALLY OWNED BUSINESSES
STRUGGLE OUTSIDE THE FOOTBALL
SEASON AND ART FAIRS ESPECIALLY
IN LIGHT OF MORE PROFESSIONALS
WORKING FROM HOME.
SO THANK YOU CITY ADMINISTRATOR
TIFFANY AND DESTINATION ANN
ARBOR FOR ATTEMPTING TO SPEAK
TO THE NEED FOR A DOWNTOWN
CONFERENCE CENTER THAT WOULD BE
PROGRAMS IN SUPPORT OF LOCAL
ARTS BUSINESSES AND VISITORS.
WE ARE THE ECONOMIC ENGINE
OF THE COUNTY AND WE HAVE A
REPUTATION AS BEING A WELCOMING
TO VISITORS.
I THINK A LOT OF US EXPERIENCE
THE CITY IN SIMILAR WAYS.
I AM NOT FROM ANN BARBER.
MY FIRST EXPERIENCE WAS IN 1992
TO GO TO A U OF M FOOTBALL.
I HAVE NOT BEEN BACK SINCE I
WILL WEAR THE TEAM THE TEAM
SHIRT BUT I SOLD ALL MY TICKETS
AS A MODEL U.N. GEEK WHEN I WAS
AN UNDERGRAD STUDENT SO BUT I
WILL FULLY APPRECIATE THE FULL
MARKET VALUE
THAT SPORTS CAN
BRING TO THE CITY BECAUSE IN
THE END ANN ARBOR IS A HOME TO
FREAK'S
GEEKS AND JOCKS.
SO WHEN WE REVISIT THIS IDEA
OF WHAT TO DO WITH A PARKING
LOT, I HOPE WE CAN BE
IMAGINATIVE, COLLABORATIVE, NOT
PRONE TO CONSPIRACY THEORIES
AND ACTUALLY HAVE A RESULT THAT
CAN COME TO FRUITION WITHIN
THIS LIFETIME.
WE CANNOT SIT ON PARKING LOTS
IN PERPETUITY.
WE CANNOT WAIT FOR THE HOUSING
CRISIS CRISIS TO WORSEN SO
GUMLU FURTHER COMMUNICATION
FROM COUNCIL COUNCILMAN
MCCONNELL I WANT TO THANK MY
COUNCIL MEMBER COLLEAGUE DOWN
THERE FOR SAYING SOME
OF EXACTLY WHAT I WAS GOING TO
SAY.
I APPRECIATE YOUR WORDS SO I'LL
USE MY TIME TO TALK ABOUT THE
SHOW YOUR LOVE FOR MAIN STREET
SMALL BUSINESS CRAWL ON
SATURDAY STARTING AT NINE A.M.
FOR MOST LOCATIONS THERE'S
TWENTY NINE BUSINESSES, SMALL
BUSINESSES OWNED BY OUR
NEIGHBORS THAT ARE
PARTICIPATING IN THIS THIS
WEEKEND.
SO PLEASE CHECK OUT IF YOU ARE
GOING TO BE DOWNTOWN SHOW SOME
LOVE FOR THOSE SMALL BUSINESSES
AND IF YOU WANT ADDITIONAL
INFORMATION IT IS AVAILABLE AT
MAIN STREET IN AABERG.
THANK YOU COUNCILMAN BRACKMAN.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
SPEAKING OF FREAKS, I WANTED TO
USE MY TIME TO RECOGNIZE THE
DEATH OF AN URBAN LEGEND WAYNE
KRAMER, CO-FOUNDER AND STARS
FOR THE ROCK BAND FIVE WHO DIED
THIS PAST WEEKEND.
I'M FIVE STANDS FOR MOTOR CITY
FIVE AND MUCH TO THE CHAGRIN
OF MY DETROIT BORN HUSBAND AND
I'M SURE MANY DETROITERS WHO
ARE CLAIMING THEM AS HIS OWN
ARE GOING TO CLAIM THEM FOR ANN
ARBOR.
THIS BAND WAS MANAGED BY JOHN
SINCLAIR AND OTHER NOTABLE
PERSON IN THE CITY'S HISTORY.
THEY THRASH THEIR GUITARS IN
THE GARAGE AND HILL STREET AND
PERFORMED AT WEST PARK IN THE
BANDSHELL IN THE LATE IN THE
LATE 1960S UNTIL THE CITY SHUT
IT DOWN.
I WAS LUCKY ENOUGH TO SEE HIM
PERFORM A COUPLE OF TIMES OVER
THE LAST 20 YEARS.
YOU CAN LEARN A LOT MORE ABOUT
HIM IN THE ANN ARBOR DISTRICT
LIBRARY ARCHIVES LOTS OF GOOD
PICTURES THERE.
REST IN PEACE SEEMS WHOLLY
INAPPROPRIATE TO SAY TO SOMEONE
WHO KICKED OUT THE JAMS MOTHER
WORD I'M NOT GOING TO SAY FROM
THE COUNCIL TABLE SO REST IN
POWER.
WAYNE KRAMER, THANK YOU.
COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON THANKS.
AS PART OF MY ONGOING
COMMITMENT TO CONSTITUENT
ENGAGEMENT.
I'LL BE HOSTING A WARD TWO
LISTENING SESSION ON SUNDAY,
FEBRUARY 18TH AT THREE P.M. AT
THE PANERA BREAD AT THIRTY TWO
00 FIVE WASHTENAW I HAVE AND I
HOPE TO SEE YOU THERE.
COUNCILOR HARRISON.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
I'M HAPPY I'LL START BY SAYING
HAPPY BLACK HISTORY MONTH.
AS A LIFELONG RESIDENT WENT
THROUGH THE ANN ARBOR PUBLIC
SCHOOL SYSTEM, I WAS DEEPLY
MOVED BY THE JONES SCHOOL
DOCUMENTARY THAT PLAYED
YESTERDAY AT THE MICHIGAN
THEATER.
IT RESONATED WITH SOME OF MY
OWN EXPERIENCES NAVIGATING A
CITY.
AS WE CELEBRATE BLACK HISTORY
MONTH, LET'S ACKNOWLEDGE THE
LEGACY OF EDUCATIONAL
DESEGREGATION EFFORTS HERE IN
THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR
DESEGREGATION IMPACT WITH
COMPLEX WHILE IT CHALLENGED
RACIAL SEGREGATION, THE CLOSURE
OF JOBS SCHOOLS SCARED STUDENTS
BUSSING THEM TO DISTANT
SEGREGATED NEIGHBORHOODS.
THIS DECISION HAD LASTING
CONSEQUENCES CONTRIBUTING TO
THE ISOLATION AND WEATHERING
EXPERIENCED BY MANY BLACK
STUDENTS.
IMAGINE BEING THE ONLY OR ONE
OF A FEW BLACK STUDENTS IN A
PREDOMINANTLY WHITE SCHOOL
FACING IMPLICIT BIASES AND
MICRO AGGRESSIONS DAILY THAT
CONSTANT STRESS TAKES THE TOLL
COUNCIL MEMBER CHRIS WATSON AND
I STAND ON THE SHOULDERS
OF GIANTS LIKE THE CONGRESS ON
RACIAL EQUALITY.
THE NAACP AND THE TRAILBLAZING
EMMA WHEELER.
THEIR UNWAVERING FIGHT FOR
DESEGREGATED SCHOOLS MIRRORED
THE NATIONAL CIVIL RIGHTS
MOVEMENT.
I WANT TO ACKNOWLEDGE A
MILESTONE LIKE THE APPOINTMENT
OF FORMER CITY CLERK WENDY
NORTH CROSS AND OUR CURRENT
CITY ADMINISTRATOR MILTON
DOWNEY JR. SIGNIFYING PROGRESS.
LET US NOT FORGET THE
PERSISTENT NEED FOR A DIVERSE
REPRESENTATION ACROSS ALL
LEVELS SUPPORTING BLACK LEADERS
BOTH PRESENT AND PAST IS
CRUCIAL.
WE NAVIGATE COMPLEX SYSTEMS,
OVERCOME HISTORICAL BIASES AND
FACE UNIQUE CHALLENGES AS
PIONEERS JUST LIKE THOSE
ISOLATED STUDENTS.
BUT PRESSURE CAN BE IMMENSE.
BUT TODAY I AM PROUD TO SAY
THAT OUR CURRENT COUNCIL
EXEMPLIFIES HOW WE CAN SUPPORT
LOCAL LEADERS.
THIS COUNCIL HAS BEEN ACTIVELY
SUPPORTIVE SUPPORTING
LEGISLATION AND POLICIES THAT
MOVE ANN ARBOR FORWARD IN
ADDITION, I'VE SEEN HOW
COMMITTED OUR STAFF IS TO
MOVING FORWARD WITH LAYING THE
GROUNDWORK FOR AN EVEN MORE
INCLUSIVE ANN ARBOR.
BUT THIS ISN'T JUST ABOUT
CELEBRATING MILESTONES.
IT'S ABOUT BUILDING A FUTURE
WHERE EQUITY THRIVES.
LET'S COMMIT TO AMPLIFYING THE
VOICES OF BLACK RESIDENTS AND
DECISION MAKING INVESTING IN
PROGRAMS THAT SUPPORT AND
EMPOWER BLACK LEADERS, CREATE
INCLUSIVE SPACES WHERE EVERYONE
FEELS WELCOME AND VALUED BY
ACKNOWLEDGING THE PAST,
SUPPORTING PRESENT LEADERS AND
WORKING TOWARDS A MORE
EQUITABLE FUTURE, WE CAN HONOR
THE STRUGGLES OF THOSE WHO CAME
BEFORE US AND ENSURE THAT ALL
RESIDENTS OF ANN ARBOR CAN
THRIVE.
THIS IS JUST THE BEGINNING.
LET'S KEEP THE CONVERSATION
GOING.
TAKE ACTION AND BUILD A
COMMUNITY THAT TRULY LIVES UPON
UP TO ITS IDEALS.
THANK YOU FOR THE COMMUNICATION
FROM COUNCIL
.
I WOULD LIKE TO REQUEST
CONFIRMATION OF THE FOLLOWING
APPOINTMENTS PRESENTED TO CITY
COUNCIL AT THE JANUARY 22 20
TWENTY FOUR REGULAR SESSION TO
THE TRANSPORTATION COMMISSION
LISA CAMPBELL TO THE
COMMISSIONER DISABILITY ISSUES
LORRAINE PLEASE TO THE BOARD
OF REVIEW ELIZABETH MARTIN TO
THE PLANNING COMMISSION DANIEL
ADAMS HAVE A MOTION PLEASE MOVE
BY COUNCILMAN BURGESS TAKEN BY
COUNCIL MEMBER WITH DENHA
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POSED IT IS
APPROVED CAN YOU PLEASE KEEP
THE SIGN DOWN?
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
THAT'S FOR YOU.
SIGN THAT FOR YOU TO KNOW.
I WOULD ALSO LIKE TO RECOMMEND
THE FOLLOWING NOMINATIONS FOR
YOUR CONSIDERATION TO THE BOARD
A REVIEW KURT ZEL MAY HAVE A
MOTION PLEASE TO PROBABLY
CONSENT AGENDA MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER FOR DENHA SECOND BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DISCUSSION
OF THE CONSENT AGENDA COUNCIL
MEMBER FOR DENHA LET ONE PLEASE
FOR THE DISCUSSION THE CONSENT
THAT AT A COUNCIL BRITISH SORRY
I'D LIKE TO PROCEED FURTHER
DISCUSSION COUNCIL MEMBER AKMAN
I JUST WANTED TO NOTE A COUPLE
OF THINGS QUICKLY ON HERE.
ONE I'M VERY HAPPY TO SUPPORT
THE LESLI SCIENCE CENTER TWO
HUNDRED AND FIFTY THOUSAND
DOLLARS THAT WOULD BE
CONTRIBUTING TOWARDS A PLACE
GROUP AND ALSO WANTED TO MAKE
NOTE THAT THEY SECURED OVER
600000 DOLLARS IN FUNDING FOR
THIS PROJECT A GREAT COMMUNITY
RESOURCES I THINK ONE OF OUR
PUBLIC COMMENTERS ALREADY NOTED
I ALSO WANTED TO SPEAK TO
QUICKLY TO DC SORRY C11 I HAVE
THE DETAILED SCORING SHEET AND
I WANT PEOPLE TO KNOW THAT WE
HAD SEVEN BIDS FOR THIS
PROJECT.
THEY RANGED FROM SIX MILLION
DOLLARS TO EIGHT POINT EIGHT
MILLION DOLLARS.
THE BID THAT'S BEEN PUT FORWARD
BY STAFF WHICH IS NONUNION BY
THE WAY HAD THE HIGHEST SCORE
BASED ON CRITERIA THAT SET BY
OUR POLICY.
IT WAS MIDDLE OF THE ROAD IN
TERMS OF PRICE.
IN FACT THERE'S FOUR
CONTRACTORS WHICH ARE A MIX
OF UNION AND NONUNION BIDS THAT
ARE OVER EIGHT MILLION DOLLARS
.
THESE BIDS ARE NOT SCIENTIFIC.
THEY'RE PUT FORTH THAT THEY
HAVE CONTINGENCY AMOUNTS
ATTACHED TO THEM.
THIS ONE HAS SEVEN HUNDRED AND
SIXTY FIVE THOUSAND DOLLARS
THAT CAN GO OVER WITHOUT
COUNCIL APPROVAL AND THAT TELLS
YOU THAT WE ACTUALLY ACCOUNT
FOR THE FACT THAT BIDS ARE NOT
PRECISE.
WE SEE REQUESTS FOR MONEY ON
THESE TYPES OF CONTRACTS NOT
INFREQUENTLY.
SO I THINK WE SHOULD ALWAYS ASK
HOW WE CAN IMPROVE OUR POLICIES
AND ASK IF THEY'RE HAVING THE
INTENDED OUTCOME.
BUT THE PUBLIC HAS SPECIFICALLY
SAID THEY CARE MORE ABOUT
FACTORS OTHER THAN JUST COST
AND THERE MANY DIMENSIONS
OF VALUE AND THE SCORESHEET
REFLECTS THAT I'M COMFORTABLE
MOVING FORWARD WITH THE BID
SUGGESTED BY THE CITY AND BY
THE HIGH SCORE FURTHER
DISCUSSION COUNCIL MEMBERS ON
ALL TIME IN AN ECHO THE
SENTIMENTS THREE ON IN SUPPORT
OF THE POLICY SCIENCE AND
NATURE CENTER.
PLEASE GABE.
MY FAMILY HAS CONTRIBUTED BUT I
THINK THAT IS ONE OF SEVERAL
EXAMPLES IN OUR CITY WHERE WE
KNOW WHEN THERE IS ENTHUSIASM
AROUND AN ACTUAL PARK
FUNCTIONING AS A PARK WITH
PRIVATE SUPPORT WE CAN SEE THAT
COME TO A REALITY PRETTY
QUICKLY SO WE CAN SEE THAT AT
THE SKATE PARK WE CAN SEE THE
THAT LAZY SCIENCE, THE NATURE
CENTER.
WE CAN SEE THIS AT GALIT PARK
WHERE THE ROTARY CLUB CAME
TOGETHER AND RAISED I THINK
NEARLY A MILLION FOUR.
SO TO MAKE THAT INTO A
UNIVERSAL ACCESS PARK.
SO THANK GOODNESS FOR OUR PARK
SYSTEM AND OUR LOVE FOR PARKS
IN THE CITY TO ACTUALLY BE USED
AS PARKS FOR THE DISCUSSION
COUNCIL MEMBER.
NOW I WANT TO CHIME IN ALSO ON
LESLIE SCIENCE NATURE CENTER, I
WAS REALLY IMPRESSED TO READ
ABOUT THE THOUGHTFULNESS THAT
THEY PUT INTO THE PLACE KEEP
ESPECIALLY AROUND ACCESSIBILITY
.
I THINK THIS IS GOING TO BE A
HUGE BENEFIT TO OUR COMMUNITY
AND I THINK IT IS THE EXAMPLE
OF THE TYPE OF PARK THAT WE CAN
BE PROUD OF HERE.
SO I'M ENTHUSIASTIC SUPPORT IT
FOR THE DISCUSSION ON FAVOR THE
CONSENT AGENDA WITH THE
EXCEPTION OF ACA ONE CIA PCI
OPPOSED THE CONSENT AGENDA WITH
THE EXCEPTION OF ONE AND SEEING
IT IS APPROVED WITH OR WITH
EIGHT COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT
ALL VOTED IN THE AFFIRMATIVE
THAT SATISFIED THE VOTE
REQUIREMENT WITH RESPECT TO
THREE, FOUR FIVE, NINE TEN AND
SEE ELEVEN SEEI ONE RESOLUTION
TO APPROVE A CONSTRUCTION
CONTRACT WITH PARMAR
ENTERPRISES FOR THE HURON WEST
PARK SANITARY SEWER REPLACEMENT
PHASES TWO
AND THREE IN THE
AMOUNT OF EIGHT MILLION FOUR
HUNDRED EIGHTY THREE THOUSAND
FOUR HUNDRED FORTY DOLLARS BY
COUNCIL MEMBER OF DENHA
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER DISH
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF SEEI ONE
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
I WANT TO START BY
ACKNOWLEDGING COUNCILOR MEYER
FOR FLAGGING THIS CONTRACT AND
FOR INITIALLY DIGGING INTO IT.
SHE AND I HAVE HAD A FEW
CONVERSATIONS WITH STAFF ABOUT
WHAT WE BELIEVE AS AN
OPPORTUNITY TO CREATE SOME
ADDITIONAL CLARITY IN OUR PEERS
WITH RESPECT TO EXACTLY WHAT
THE CITY EXPECTS TO RECEIVE
WHEN ASKING FOR DOCUMENTATION
AS TO BETTER PAY RATES, HEALTH
INSURANCE, PENSION OR OTHER
RETIREMENT BENEFITS PAID LEAVE
OR OTHER FRINGE BENEFITS TO ITS
EMPLOYEES AND ALSO THE
DOCUMENTATION TO BETTER
PARTICIPATES IN A REGISTERED
APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM.
IT'S MY UNDERSTANDING THAT BOTH
BIDDERS ON THIS PROJECT HAVE
LITTLE TO NO HISTORY FOR
PROJECTS HARBOR BIDDING ON
PROJECTS IN ANN ARBOR.
SO THERE'S LIKELY A BIT OF A
LEARNING CURVE HERE WITH
RESPECT TO OUR RIGOROUS PROCESS
AND WHEN RESPONDING TO US
QUESTIONS MAJOR CONTRACTING
RESPONDED THAT THEY ARE
SIGNATORY WITH THE FOLLOWING
UNION SHOPS AND THEN THEY
LISTED THE UNION'S AND THAT ALL
PAY HEALTH INSURANCE, PENSION
AND RETIREMENT BENEFITS ARE
THROUGH THE UNION.
THEY ALSO INDICATED THAT THEY
PARTICIPATE IN AN
APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM THROUGH
THE UNIONS FOR THEIR LABORERS
AND FINISHERS.
AS COUNCIL MEMBER ER POINTED
OUT IN OUR CONVERSATIONS, THESE
AGREEMENTS AS WELL AS THE PAY
SCALES AND BENEFITS ARE PUBLIC
AND CAN BE FOUND EASILY UNION
REPS ON THE UNION WEBSITES THAT
WERE INDICATED AND FOR THIS IT
IS EASY FOR ME TO BELIEVE THAT
MAJOR CONTRACT AND LIKELY
THOUGHT THAT THE INFORMATION
PROVIDED WAS SUFFICIENT TO
DEMONSTRATE THAT THEY QUITE
CLEARLY MEET THE CRITERIA THAT
WE ASK FOR UNDER OUR BEST VALUE
CONTRACTING REQUIREMENTS IN
THIS INSTANCE THE OTHER
CONTRACTOR DID NOT PROVIDE ANY
INFORMATION WITH RESPECT TO
THESE TWO QUESTIONS AND AGAIN
WITH CREDIT COMES NO IRE FOR
DIGGING INTO THIS.
OUR SHOWS WEBSITE INDICATES
THAT THEY ARE NONUNION AND NO
ADDITIONAL INFORMATION IS
PUBLICLY AVAILABLE TO SUGGEST
OTHERWISE.
FOR ME AT LEAST IT IS QUITE
CLEAR THAT MAJOR CONTRACTING
NEEDS OUR BEST VALUE, OUR
CONTRACTING CRITERIA.
IN FACT THEY HAVE EMBRACED AS
THEIR BUSINESS MODEL THE VERY
THINGS THAT WE SAY WE VALUE AS
A CITY BECAUSE THEY ONLY
PROVIDED A STATEMENT INDICATING
THEIR COMPLIANCE INSTEAD
OF ACTUALLY ATTACHING THE
DOCUMENTS THEY RECEIVE ZERO
TOWARD THEIR TOTAL SCORE.
AS A RESULT THEY NARROWLY
SLIPPED BEHIND THE OTHER BIDDER
AND SCORING SO WELL I DO HAVE A
LITTLE BIT MORE TO SAY BEFORE
MOVING FURTHER I MOVE TO AMEND
THAT RESOLUTION SEIA ONE TO
APPROVE THE CONSTRUCTION
CONTRACT FOR HERE ON WEST PARK
SANITARY SEWER REPLACEMENT
PHASES TWO AND THREE TO CHANGE
THE CONTRACTOR FROM PAYMER
ENTERPRISES TO MAJOR CONTRACT
AND GROUPING AND ASKED THAT OUR
CLERK PLEASE CIRCULATE THE
PROPOSED NEW LANGUAGE.
IS THERE A SECOND SECOND
COUNCIL MEMBER DIS SIMEN
FRIENDLY TO THE BODY COUNCILOR
MCGINEST OF THE FLOOR.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
AS I MENTIONED COUNCILOR AND I
HAVE ALREADY SPOKEN WITH STAFF
ABOUT CLARIFYING THIS LANGUAGE
IN THE FUTURE TO MAKE IT AS YET
THIS IS WHAT WE'RE DOING HERE
IS WE I INTERPRET WHAT YOU ARE
SAYING AS A POINT OF ORDER
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA AMENDMENT
YES.
COUNCIL NO.
I AND I HAVE ALREADY SPOKEN
WITH STAFF ABOUT CLARIFYING THE
LANGUAGE TO MAKE AS CLEAR AS
POSSIBLE ABOUT EXACTLY WHAT
DOCUMENTATION IS REQUIRED
MOVING FORWARD.
BUT THE QUESTION BEFORE US
TONIGHT IS WITH RESPECT TO THIS
CONTRACT AND FOR ME THE CHOICE
IS QUITE CLEAR ONLY MAJOR
CONTRACTING PARTICIPATES IN THE
DEPARTMENT OF LABOR
APPRENTICESHIP PROGRAM AND AS
WE'VE DISCUSSED AT THE THIS
TABLE MANY TIMES BEFORE, THIS
IMPROVED TRAINING RESULTS IN
HIGHER QUALITY CONSTRUCTION AND
BETTER WORKPLACE SAFETY.
ONLY MAJORCAN PROVIDES
PREVAILING WAGES, HEALTH CARE,
RETIREMENT BENEFITS AND
RETIREMENT BENEFITS FOR ALL
OF THEIR EMPLOYEES ALL OF THE
TIME NOT JUST WHEN THEY'RE
DOING BUSINESS IN ANN ARBOR AND
BASED ON BASED ON OUR
CONVERSATION, MY UNDERSTANDING
IS THAT CITY STAFF REMAINS
NEUTRAL ON THIS CHANGE.
SO BECAUSE SHE COULDN'T BE HERE
TONIGHT AND BECAUSE SHE DID A
LOT OF THE HEAVY LIFTING ON US,
I'M GOING TO CONCLUDE BY
SHARING SOME REMARKS SHARED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER IHR AND SHE SAID
QUOTE FROM A VALUES PERSPECTIVE
,MAJOR CLEARLY DOES THE THINGS
THAT WE VALUE WHILE THE OTHER
CONTRACTOR DOES NOT KNOW WE
ALWAYS HOPE THEY WILL IN THE
FUTURE.
THE ULTIMATE DECISION RESTS
WITH COUNCIL OVERSIGHT AS PART
OF OUR ROLE AS COUNCIL MEMBERS.
OTHERWISE THESE CONTRACTS
WOULDN'T COME TO US FOR REVIEW
INVOLVED IN MAKING THIS CHANGE
WE ARE REAFFIRMING OUR
COMMITMENT TO CHOOSING THE
BIDDER THAT CLEARLY PROVIDES
THE BEST VALUE TO THE CITY AND
WE WILL CLARIFY SO THAT THE NEW
BETTER CAN BETTER UNDERSTAND
THE EXACT DOCUMENTATION WE ARE
SEEKING IN THE FUTURE.
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
COUNCIL.
BRACKMAN.
THANK YOU.
FIRST I WANT TO START OUT BY
SAYING THAT I REALLY APPRECIATE
THE DILIGENCE OF MY COLLEAGUES
AND THE SCRUTINY THAT'S BEING
APPLIED.
I THINK THAT'S FAIR.
OUR BEST VALUE POLICY IS STILL
RELATIVELY NEW AND WE'VE
ALREADY DISCOVERED THAT IT
NEEDS REFINEMENT.
I BELIEVE WE MADE SOME
REFINEMENTS AROUND THIS TIME
LAST YEAR.
WE AS A BODY OF AREAS
OF IMPORTANCE AND THEN STAFF
SCORES WE GET THE SCORES THAT
THE BIDS YOU KNOW, BASED ON THE
BIDS THAT ARE PUT FORTH AND WE
GET THE ONES THAT SCORE THE
HIGHEST.
SO I DON'T REALLY I DON'T
DISAGREE WITH ANYTHING THAT
COUNCIL MEMBER OR DENHA HAS
SAID REGARDING THESE TWO BIDS.
YET AS A COUNCIL MEMBER I DON'T
FEEL COMFORTABLE GETTING IN THE
BUSINESS OF CHANGING ONE
CONTRACT FROM ANOTHER FROM A
SET OF BIDS.
I DON'T WANT TO TRY TO FIGURE
OUT INTENT.
YOU KNOW, I THINK IF THE POLICY
NEEDS TWEAKING OR EVEN ON THE
IMPLEMENTATION WE SHOULD
ADDRESS THAT BUT NOT BY
SELECTING A DIFFERENT
CONTRACTOR FOR A PARTICULAR
CONSTRUCTION PROJECT.
SO AGAIN, I WOULD JUST ASK US
TO ADDRESS THE DEFICIENCIES,
YOU KNOW, RATHER THAN DOING
THIS SO I WON'T BE SUPPORTING
THIS FURTHER DISCUSSION ON THE
AMENDMENT ROLL-CALL VOTE PLEASE
STARTING WITH COUNCILOR WATSON
ON THE COUNCILOR WATSON.
YES, THAT'S OUR DENHA.
YES.
WE'RE GONNA ADD ONE MORE TAYLOR
COUNCILOR IHR ABSENTS
YES.
ELSEWHERE.
COUNCILOR IHR ABSENTS
ACKMANN NO CUSTOMER BRIGGS
ELSEWHERE.
ABSENT COUNCILOR CORNELL YES.
ACKMANN NO CUSTOMER BRIGGS
CUSTOMER DISH YES.
ABSENT COUNCILOR CORNELL YES.
CUSTOMER HARRISON YES.
CUSTOMER DISH YES.
THAT'S OUR SONG.
CUSTOMER HARRISON YES.
YES MOTION CARRIES FURTHER
THAT'S OUR SONG.
DISCUSSION.
YES MOTION CARRIES FURTHER
THE MAIN MOTION WAS AMENDED ON
DISCUSSION.
FAVOR POSED IT IS APPROVED C8
THE MAIN MOTION WAS AMENDED ON
RESOLUTION TO ACCEPT THE
FAVOR POSED IT IS APPROVED C8
COMMUNITY PROJECT FUNDING GRANT
RESOLUTION TO ACCEPT THE
AND APPROVE A GRANT AGREEMENT
COMMUNITY PROJECT FUNDING GRANT
FROM THE STATE OF MICHIGAN
AND APPROVE A GRANT AGREEMENT
DEPARTMENT OF LABOR ECONOMIC
FROM THE STATE OF MICHIGAN
OPPORTUNITY AND ECONOMIC
DEPARTMENT OF LABOR ECONOMIC
OPPORTUNITY FOR ADVANCING THE
OPPORTUNITY AND ECONOMIC
WHEELER CENTER SOLAR PARK IN
OPPORTUNITY FOR ADVANCING THE
THE AMOUNT OF FIVE MILLION
WHEELER CENTER SOLAR PARK IN
DOLLARS MOVED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
THE AMOUNT OF FIVE MILLION
DISH SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
DOLLARS MOVED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
WATSON DISCUSSION ASSOCIATE
DISH SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
COUNSEL FOR DISH.
WATSON DISCUSSION ASSOCIATE
I JUST WANTED TO SAY HOW
COUNSEL FOR DISH.
PLEASED I AM TO SEE THIS AND I
I JUST WANTED TO SAY HOW
REALIZED I DIDN'T NEED A PLOT
PLEASED I AM TO SEE THIS AND I
TO DO THAT BUT THAT WILL SINK
REALIZED I DIDN'T NEED A PLOT
IN NOW I'M VERY EXCITED BECAUSE
TO DO THAT BUT THAT WILL SINK
COMMUNITY SOLAR WILL SUPPLY
IN NOW I'M VERY EXCITED BECAUSE
FIVE MEGAWATTS OF ENERGY TO ANN
COMMUNITY SOLAR WILL SUPPLY
ARBOR AND IS A KEY PIECE OF AN
FIVE MEGAWATTS OF ENERGY TO ANN
EQUITABLE DECARBONIZATION
ARBOR AND IS A KEY PIECE OF AN
PROCESS.
EQUITABLE DECARBONIZATION
THE CITY IS WORKING ON LOW
PROCESS.
INCOME SUBSCRIPTIONS FOR ANN
THE CITY IS WORKING ON LOW
ARBOR RESIDENTS TO THIS SOON TO
INCOME SUBSCRIPTIONS FOR ANN
BE REALIZED ENERGY.
ARBOR RESIDENTS TO THIS SOON TO
THERE IS NO WAY FOR US TO DO
BE REALIZED ENERGY.
COMMUNITY SOLAR WITHOUT
THERE IS NO WAY FOR US TO DO
PARTNERING WITH DTG UNDER
COMMUNITY SOLAR WITHOUT
CURRENT REGULATORY CONDITIONS.
PARTNERING WITH DTG UNDER
SO WE VALUE EQUITY WE WILL NEED
CURRENT REGULATORY CONDITIONS.
TO WORK WITH ON THIS PROJECT AT
SO WE VALUE EQUITY WE WILL NEED
LEAST FOR THE TIME BEING.
TO WORK WITH ON THIS PROJECT AT
SO I WANT TO UNDERSCORE THE
LEAST FOR THE TIME BEING.
IMPORTANCE OF OUR BEING WILLING
SO I WANT TO UNDERSCORE THE
TO MAKE TRADE OFFS THAT ADVANCE
IMPORTANCE OF OUR BEING WILLING
OUR CORE GOALS SUCH AS EQUITY.
TO MAKE TRADE OFFS THAT ADVANCE
I WANT TO SAY CONGRATULATIONS
OUR CORE GOALS SUCH AS EQUITY.
TO THE OFFICE OF SUSTAINABILITY
I WANT TO SAY CONGRATULATIONS
AND INNOVATION AND ALSO THANK
TO THE OFFICE OF SUSTAINABILITY
YOU TO SENATOR STATE SENATOR
AND INNOVATION AND ALSO THANK
JEFF ERWAN, REPRESENTATIVE
YOU TO SENATOR STATE SENATOR
STATE REPRESENTATIVE JASON
JEFF ERWAN, REPRESENTATIVE
MORGAN AND THE ENTIRE IN OUR
STATE REPRESENTATIVE JASON
LEGISLATIVE DELEGATION THAT
MORGAN AND THE ENTIRE IN OUR
HELPED US GET THIS FIVE DOLLARS
LEGISLATIVE DELEGATION THAT
MILLION WHICH IS GOING TO HELP
HELPED US GET THIS FIVE DOLLARS
MAKE THIS PROJECT FINANCIALLY
MILLION WHICH IS GOING TO HELP
VIABLE.
MAKE THIS PROJECT FINANCIALLY
I'D LIKE TO BASICALLY SAY WHAT
VIABLE.
SHE SAID.
I'D LIKE TO BASICALLY SAY WHAT
YOU KNOW, I AM A VERY EXCITED
SHE SAID.
ABOUT THIS PROJECT MOVING
YOU KNOW, I AM A VERY EXCITED
FORWARD.
ABOUT THIS PROJECT MOVING
ULTIMATELY THE THE SOLAR FIELD
FORWARD.
IS GOING TO BE AT OR EXCEED SIX
ULTIMATELY THE THE SOLAR FIELD
MEGAWATTS WHICH IS OUTSTANDING.
IS GOING TO BE AT OR EXCEED SIX
IT SHOULD WITH THE PASSAGE WITH
MEGAWATTS WHICH IS OUTSTANDING.
THE ACCEPTANCE OF THIS THIS
IT SHOULD WITH THE PASSAGE WITH
GRANT BE ABLE TO GET OFF THE
THE ACCEPTANCE OF THIS THIS
GROUND THIS FALL HOPEFULLY
GRANT BE ABLE TO GET OFF THE
BEING ONLINE IN TWENTY TWENTY
GROUND THIS FALL HOPEFULLY
FIVE.
BEING ONLINE IN TWENTY TWENTY
IT WILL BE AN IMPORTANT STEP
FIVE.
FORWARD AS WE LOOK TO
IT WILL BE AN IMPORTANT STEP
ACCOMPLISH OUR EIGHT TWO ZERO
FORWARD AS WE LOOK TO
GOALS.
ACCOMPLISH OUR EIGHT TWO ZERO
I WOULD ALSO LIKE TO ECHO THE
GOALS.
THANKS TO TO SENATOR ERWIN AND
I WOULD ALSO LIKE TO ECHO THE
AND MORGAN AS WELL AS THE
THANKS TO TO SENATOR ERWIN AND
BALANCE OF THE DELEGATION WHO I
AND MORGAN AS WELL AS THE
ALSO KNOW AS WELL WE'RE
BALANCE OF THE DELEGATION WHO I
SUPPORTIVE OF THIS PROJECT.
ALSO KNOW AS WELL WE'RE
IT IS A CRUCIAL PIECE OF CLEAN
SUPPORTIVE OF THIS PROJECT.
ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE IN ANN
IT IS A CRUCIAL PIECE OF CLEAN
ARBOR AND I'M EXCITED THAT
ENERGY INFRASTRUCTURE IN ANN
WE'RE GOING TO BE MOVING IT
ARBOR AND I'M EXCITED THAT
FORWARD.
WE'RE GOING TO BE MOVING IT
>> FURTHER DISCUSSION IN FAVOR
FORWARD.
OPPOSED IS APPROVED WITH EIGHT
>> FURTHER DISCUSSION IN FAVOR
COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT ALL
OPPOSED IS APPROVED WITH EIGHT
THREE SATISFYING THE EIGHT VOTE
COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT ALL
REQUIREMENT.
THREE SATISFYING THE EIGHT VOTE
WE NOW COME TO TWO PUBLIC
REQUIREMENT.
HEARINGS.
WE NOW COME TO TWO PUBLIC
PUBLIC HEARINGS ARE
HEARINGS.
OPPORTUNITIES FOR MEMBERS
PUBLIC HEARINGS ARE
OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO
OPPORTUNITIES FOR MEMBERS
COUNCIL AND THE COMMUNITY ABOUT
OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO
THE SPECIFIC SUBJECT MATTER
COUNCIL AND THE COMMUNITY ABOUT
OF THE PUBLIC HEARING SPEAKERS
THE SPECIFIC SUBJECT MATTER
DO NOT NEED TO HAVE SIGNED UP
OF THE PUBLIC HEARING SPEAKERS
IN ADVANCE IN ORDER TO SPEAK AT
DO NOT NEED TO HAVE SIGNED UP
A PUBLIC HEARING.
IN ADVANCE IN ORDER TO SPEAK AT
BUT YOUR SPEECH MUST RELATE TO
A PUBLIC HEARING.
THE SUBJECT MATTER OF THE
BUT YOUR SPEECH MUST RELATE TO
PUBLIC HEARING.
THE SUBJECT MATTER OF THE
THAT IS TO SAY THE SPECIFIC
PUBLIC HEARING.
ITEM ON THE AGENDA TO WHICH THE
THAT IS TO SAY THE SPECIFIC
PUBLIC HEARING REFLECTS
ITEM ON THE AGENDA TO WHICH THE
SPEAKERS ON ALL INSTANCES
PUBLIC HEARING REFLECTS
WHETHER IN THE ROOM OR ONLINE
SPEAKERS ON ALL INSTANCES
WILL HAVE THREE MINUTES IN
WHETHER IN THE ROOM OR ONLINE
WHICH TO SPEAK SO PLEASE PAY
WILL HAVE THREE MINUTES IN
CLOSE ATTENTION TO THE TIME OUR
WHICH TO SPEAK SO PLEASE PAY
CLERK OR THE TIME CLOCK WILL
CLOSE ATTENTION TO THE TIME OUR
NOTIFY YOU IN THIRTY SECONDS
CLERK OR THE TIME CLOCK WILL
REMAINING AND WHEN YOUR TIME
NOTIFY YOU IN THIRTY SECONDS
HAS EXPIRED, WHEN YOUR TIME HAS
REMAINING AND WHEN YOUR TIME
EXPIRED, PLEASE CONCLUDE YOUR
HAS EXPIRED, WHEN YOUR TIME HAS
REMARKS AND CEDE THE FLOOR
EXPIRED, PLEASE CONCLUDE YOUR
PUBLIC HEARING NUMBER ONE
REMARKS AND CEDE THE FLOOR
RESOLUTION TO APPROVE FEES FOR
PUBLIC HEARING NUMBER ONE
THE FIRE DEPARTMENT AMBULANCE
RESOLUTION TO APPROVE FEES FOR
TRANSPORT AND LIFT ASSISTS AND
THE FIRE DEPARTMENT AMBULANCE
APPROPRIATE FUNDING.
TRANSPORT AND LIFT ASSISTS AND
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO
APPROPRIATE FUNDING.
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO
PUBLIC HEARING
?
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING HERE WE DO HAVE
A COUPLE OF CALLERS THAT
STATEMENT.
DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT?
DO.
THANK YOU EVERYONE.
THANK YOU TO THE MAYOR AND
THANK YOU TO CITY COUNCIL AND
THANK YOU TO EVERYONE PRESENT
AND ALSO JOINING VIRTUALLY
TODAY I SPEAK AS A COMMISSIONER
AND THE ENTIRE COMMISSION ON
DISABILITY ISSUES TO EXPRESS
STRONG OPPOSITION TO THE
RESOLUTION TO APPROVE FEES FOR
THE FIRE DEPARTMENT AND
AMBULANCE TRANSPORT
AND LET
ASSIST.
AND WHILE I DO UNDERSTAND THE
NECESSITY OF FUNDING FOR PUBLIC
SERVICES, PARTICULARLY THOSE
RELATED TO EMERGENCY MEDICAL
RESPONSE, I BELIEVE THAT THE
PROPOSED FEE STRUCTURE WILL
DISPROPORTIONATELY IMPACT
INDIVIDUAL WITH DISABILITIES
AND CREATE AN UNDUE BURDEN ON
THIS VULNERABLE POPULATION
OF OUR CITY.
THE PROPOSED FEE ASSESSMENT
SPECIFICALLY THE TWO HUNDRED
AND FIFTY FIVE DOLLAR FEE FOR
LIST FOR ASSISTS RAISES
SIGNIFICANT CONCERNS FOR
INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES
WHO MAY REQUIRE ASSISTANCE IN
VARIOUS SETTINGS.
AND I ARGUE THAT THIS FEE
STRUCTURE UNFAIRLY TARGETS
THOSE WHO OFTEN RELY AND LIFT
ASSIST PARTICULARLY IN PRIVATE
RESIDENCES AND MEDICAL
FACILITIES.
THE POTENTIAL FINANCIAL
IMPLICATIONS COULD DISCOURAGE
INDIVIDUALS FROM SEEKING TIMELY
ASSISTANCE, JEOPARDIZING THEIR
HEALTH AS WELL AS THEIR
WELL-BEING.
AND SO IN PARTICULAR THE
POLICY'S DISTINCTION BETWEEN
PERSISTS AT BUSINESSES AND
PRIVATE RESIDENCES IS INDEED
PROBLEMATIC.
WHILE WE ACKNOWLEDGE THE INTENT
TO EXEMPT THE FIRST SIX, THE
ASSISTS IN A 12 MONTH PERIOD AT
PRIVATE RESIDENCES ANY
ADDITIONAL INCUR FEE AND THIS
POLICY UNFAIRLY PENALIZES
INDIVIDUALS WITH DISABILITIES
WHO MAY REQUIRE FREQUENT
ASSISTANCE DUE TO CHRONIC
CONDITIONS OR DISABILITIES,
MAKING IT DIFFICULT FOR THEM TO
AFFORD THE ESSENTIAL SERVICES.
FURTHERMORE, THE ADMINISTRATIVE
DECISION TO SEND NOTICES TO THE
OWNER OR MANAGEMENT OF THE
FACILITY WHERE THE INCIDENT
OCCURS POSES CHALLENGES TO THE
LIP SERVICE AND TO ITS PRIVATE
RESIDENCES THIS ADMINISTRATIVE
APPROACH MAY LEAD TO CONFUSION
AND DELAYS AND POTENTIAL
DISPUTES, PLACING AN ADDITIONAL
BURDEN ON THE INDIVIDUALS WITH
DISABILITIES WHO ARE ALREADY
GRAPPLING WITH HEALTH
CHALLENGES.
THE WAIVER AND POSITION, WHILE
APPRECIATED THEORY, LEAVES ROOM
FOR SUBJECT JUDGMENT BY THE
FIRE CHIEF OR THE DESIGNEE.
THE DETERMINATION OF WHETHER
THE ASSESSMENT WAS IN THE ERROR
OR IT IS INDEED MITIGATING THE
FACTS WHICH RELY ON THE
DISCRETION OF THE COMMANDING
OFFICER OR POTENTIALLY LEADING
TO INCONSISTENT AND UNFAIR
OUTCOMES FOR THE INDIVIDUAL
WITH 30 SECONDS.
SO IN CONCLUSION WE URGE THE
COUNCIL TO RECONSIDER THE
PROPOSED RESTRUCTURE AND ITS
POTENTIAL IMPACT ON THE
DISABILITY COMMUNITY.
I BELIEVE THERE'S A MORE
EQUITABLE SOLUTION THAT CAN BE
REACHED DROUTH CLAVERING CHYNN
WITH DISABILITY ADVOCATES AND
COMMUNITY STAKEHOLDERS TO
ENSURE THAT THE EMERGENCY
MEDICAL SERVICES REMAIN
ACCESSIBLE AND AFFORDABLE FOR
ALL RESIDENTS REGARDLESS
OF THEIR ABILITY STATUS.
THANK YOU ALL FOR YOUR
ATTENTION AND CONSIDERATION.
THANK
SHELL HUGHES.
DO YOU HAVE A COMMENT?
YES, I AM ALSO OPPOSED TO
CHARGING FEES FOR THESE
SERVICES.
I HAVE AND THAT FOR FROM THE
BEGINNING AND EVEN IF I WOULD
NEVER BE ON DISADVANTAGING
DISABLED PEOPLE WE'D BE MAKING
THINGS HARD FOR THEM FOR THE
SAKE OF , YOU KNOW, JUST A
COUPLE THOUSAND DOLLARS AND IT
DOESN'T SEEM LIKE IT'S WORTH IT
TO, UM, PUT PEOPLE INTO DANGER
AND INTO STICKING THEM IN THE
BUREAUCRATIC DEPTHS.
YOU KNOW, IF THIS WAS GOING TO
BE LIKE A HUGE AMOUNT OF MONEY
WE'RE GOING TO HAVE TO SINK A
HUGE AMOUNT OF MONEY INTO
HELPING PEOPLE THEN I GUESS
THAT WOULD, YOU KNOW, MERIT
SOME MORE CONSIDERATION.
BUT LIKE WE'RE TALKING ABOUT A
WHOLE BUNCH OF BARAK
ADMINISTRATION OF FUNDING AND
LIKE THE PREVIOUS DISCOURAGING
PEOPLE FROM USING THESE
SERVICES AND WHAT WE GET IN
RETURN IS NOT VERY MUCH LIKE
POCKET CHANGE THAT WE WON'T
NOTICE.
BUT IF WE DIDN'T HAVE SO YEAH,
I THINK THAT WE SHOULD CHOOSE A
DIFFERENT WAY HERE AND A MORE
COMPASSIONATE WAY WHERE YOU
KNOW AND IT LOOKS LIKE A LOT
OF COMPASSION WENT INTO THIS
BUT IT KIND OF WAS STARTING
FROM THE ASSUMPTION THAT YEAH,
OF COURSE WE'RE GOING TO BE
CHARGING PEOPLE MONEY FOR THESE
SERVICES AND WE HAVE TO I MEAN
WE JUST DON'T THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
, MARY.
DON'T HAVE OTHER CALLERS ON THE
LINE WITH THEIR HANDS UP
.
SEE NO FURTHER THIS PUBLIC
HEARING IS CLOSED PUBLIC NO TO
A PUBLIC HEARING FOR THE ST.
SCHOOL ROAD SIDEWALK SPECIAL
ASSESSMENT.
IS THERE ANYONE IN HOUSE WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING?
PLEASE?
GOOD EVENING, CITY COUNCIL.
MY NAME IS SCOTT VONZELL.
I'M OF COUNSEL WITH THE LAW
FIRM OF D'HIVER IBIZA ADDRESS
THREE OR ONE NORTHMEN.
I REPRESENT FIVE OWNERS IN A
PITTSVILLE TOWNSHIP ISLAND
PROPOSED TO BE TO HAVE THE
SIDEWALK CONSTRUCTED.
THEY ARE THE BORROWERS WHO LIVE
AT TWENTY EIGHT FIFTY THREE ST.
SCHOOL THE ALBATS AT TWENTY
NINE OR SEVEN LUCAS AT TWENTY
NINE THIRTY ONE BILL BOND AT
TWENTY NINE FORTY ONE AND
EISENHAUER VENTURES WHICH IS A
VACANT PARCEL THE THE FIVE
PROPERTY OWNERS BASICALLY
OBJECT BASED ON THREE REASONS
FIRST IS NECESSITY.
THEY DO NOT BELIEVE THAT A
SIDEWALK IN THIS PARTICULAR
LOCATION IS NEEDED.
THEY LIVE RIGHT THERE.
THEY HAVE EYES ON THE STREET.
THEY HAVE OBSERVED THE USE
OF THE SIDEWALK AND THE WEST
SIDE OF ST. SCHOOL AND KNOW
THAT NOTE THAT IT IS VERY
INFREQUENTLY USED.
SO THEY DO NOT BELIEVE THAT
THERE'S REALLY A NEED FOR A
SIDEWALK ON THE EAST SIDE.
SO WE REQUEST THE CITY TO
REEVALUATE THAT.
SECOND, THERE'S REALLY NO
SPECIAL BENEFIT TO THESE FIVE
PROPERTY OWNERS UNDER MICHIGAN
LAW TO BE VALID.
A SPECIAL ASSESSMENT
IMPROVEMENT HAS TO IMPART SOME
KIND OF SPECIAL OR DIRECT
BENEFIT TO THE PROPERTY BEING
ASSESSED THAT IS GREATER THAN
THE BENEFIT TO THE PUBLIC AT
LARGE.
AND SO IN THIS PARTICULAR
SITUATION WE DO NOT BELIEVE
THAT THE BENEFIT IF ANY TO
THESE PARTICULAR PROPERTIES
WILL BE GREATER THAN THE GOOD
TO THE PUBLIC AT LARGE AND SO
THEREFORE IT WOULD NOT SATISFY
ONE OF THE TESTS THAT IS
REQUIRED FOR A SAID TO BE
VALID.
THIRD, THERE'S NO
PROPORTIONALITY BETWEEN THE
PROPOSED AMOUNT OF THE
ASSESSMENT AND THE BENEFIT TO
THE PARCELS AGAIN TO BE LEGALLY
VALID.
THE ASSESSMENT AMOUNT HAS TO
BEAR SOME PROPORTIONALITY TO
THE INCREASE IN VALUE TO THE
PROPERTY HERE.
THE PROPOSED COSTS ARE, WE
BELIEVE EXCESSIVE RANGING FROM
SIXTEEN THOUSAND UP TO THIRTY
EIGHT THOUSAND DOLLARS FOR A
SIMPLE SIDEWALK AND THAT THIS
PROPOSED ASSESSMENT IS NOT
PROPORTIONATE TO THE BENEFIT
THAT THESE PROPERTIES WOULD
RECEIVE IF ANY.
SO AGAIN WE DON'T BELIEVE THAT
THE THE SAID AS PROPOSED IS
LEGALLY SUPPORTABLE AND WOULD
OBJECT TO IT ON THOSE GROUNDS
AND WE'D REQUEST THAT COUNCIL
EVALUATE THOSE COSTS TO AND
REDUCE THEM TO AN AMOUNT THAT
WOULD BE LEGALLY SUPPORTABLE.
TWO OTHER QUICK POINTS.
ONE, WE DO BELIEVE THE DESIGN
COULD BE CHANGED TO REDUCE THE
COST TO REDUCE THE AMOUNT
OF GRADING THAT'S REQUIRED AND
TO ALSO REDUCE THE AMOUNT TREE
REMOVAL THAT'S BEEN PROPOSED
AND THEN SECONDLY, WE DID
SUBMIT EARLIER TODAY AN
OBJECTION LETTER SUCH THAT I
SAID WOULD NEED EIGHT VOTES TO
BE APPROVED.
WE'RE HAPPY TO DISCUSS THESE
ISSUES WITH THE CITY STAFF AND
I THANK YOU FOR CONSIDERING
THESE POINTS.
THANK YOU.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE IN HOUSE
WHO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
PUBLIC HEARING
?
IS THERE ANYONE ONLINE WE'D
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS PUBLIC
HEARING
?
BRANDON DEMCHUK, DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
I DON'T HAVE A LIVE NEARBY IN
THE NEIGHBORHOOD TO THE WEST
OF THIS.
I HAVE BEEN PERSONALLY ANNOYED
BY THE ABSENCE OF THE SIDEWALK
OR THERE'S ALSO A SCHOOL AND A
PRESCHOOL ON THE BLOCK.
THERE DEFINITELY SHOULD BE A
SIDEWALK HERE.
I MEAN I'M ALL ABOUT FINDING A
COMPROMISE THAT WORKS FOR
EVERYBODY BUT LIKE I LOVE THE
POLICY OF THE CITY IS TO BUILD
SIDEWALKS.
THAT'S A GOOD POLICY AND WE
SHOULD DEFINITELY DO IT THERE.
THANK YOU.
>> THANK YOU
.
LUIS VASQUEZ, DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT ON MEETINGS?
I WOULD ALSO LIKE TO SPEAK IN
SUPPORT OF PUTTING ON A
SIDEWALK ON ST. GEORGE ROAD.
I'M SEEING SOME OF THE SAME
ARGUMENTS BEING USED BY THE
LAWYERS AND THE FIVE HOMEOWNERS
AS WELL AS NEWS TO SCUTTLE THE
TRAVEL ROAD SIDEWALKS TO NORTH
SIDE SCHOOL.
AS HAS BEEN MENTIONED, THERE
ARE SCHOOLS
RIGHT THERE ON ST.
SCHOOL ROAD AND WE NEED TO
PROTECT OUR CHILDREN.
SO I'M IN SUPPORT OF PUTTING
SIDEWALK STOP SCHOOL.
THANKS.
THANK YOU ADAM.
DISCOVER YOU HAVE A COMMENT.
HI THIS IS ADAM DISCOVERING THE
FOURTH QUARTER AND IOWA.
I'D ALSO LIKE TO SPEAK IN FAVOR
OF PUTTING IN SIDEWALK AND
STONE SCHOOL.
I DON'T THINK THAT WE SHOULD
ALLOW A HANDFUL OF ADJACENT
PROPERTY OWNERS TO SCUTTLE THE
CITY'S POLICY TO BUILD
SIDEWALKS ALONG EVERY STREET
AND FILL EVERY SINGLE SIDEWALK.
>> THANK YOU.
THANK YOU
.
>> SHELL HUGHES, DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
YEAH, THE CITY HAS A POLICY
OF BUILDING SIDEWALKS AND THE
REASON WE HAVE THAT POLICY IS
BECAUSE WE WANT TO CREATE A
SAFE AND CONNECTED PUBLIC
SAFETY CONNECTED TRANSPORT
NETWORK FOR NON MOTORIZED
TRAVELERS AND I THINK THAT THE
EXISTENCE OF A SAFE AND SAFE
CONNECTED NETWORK THAT IS
OF INCALCULABLE VALUE TO THE
PEOPLE WHO LIVE THERE AND
THAT'S THAT YOU KNOW, THE VALUE
OF THAT IS CERTAINLY GREATER
THAN WHATEVER AMOUNT OF MONEY
IS MORE MONEY WE'RE ASKING FOR.
SO YEAH, THERE'S YOUR VALUE
RIGHT THERE.
IT'S SAFE CONNECTED PUBLIC
TRANSIT OR SOMETHING THAT YOU
KNOW, MOTORIZED TRANSIT NETWORK
AND YEAH BUT THANK YOU
MAYOR.
>> WE DON'T HAVE ANY OTHER
CALLERS FOR THIS ITEM
.
SEE ON THIS PUBLIC HEARING IS
CLOSED DAY ONE WE HAVE A FORCE
THE REGULAR SESSION MEETING
MINUTES OF JANUARY 22, 20, 24.
I CAN'T REMEMBER WHAT THE
SECOND BY KELTS MEMBER OF DENHA
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF THE
MINUTES ON FAVORITE A OPPOSED
MINUTES ARE APPROVED DC ONE
RESOLUTION TO APPROVE A REQUEST
FROM HEARSAY INK FOR A NEW
MICROBREWERS SMALL WINEMAKER
AND SMALL DISTILLERY LIQUOR
LICENSE AND AN ENTERTAINMENT
PERMIT TO BE LOCATED AT TWO
THREE FIVE ZERO WEST LIBERTY
STREET MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER
AQUANTIVE MY COUNSEL MCCONNELL
DISCUSSION OF DC ONE KATHURIA
FROM THREE REFERRED BY THE
LIQUOR COMMISSION ON WHICH I
SIT.
THIS IS A NEW LIQUOR LICENSE
FOR HEARSAY INKED CRAFT
MICROBREWERS BUT HAS AN
IMPRESSIVE PERFORMANCE THEATER
LOCATED NEAR STADIUM ON
LIBERTY.
SO THIS IS GOOD NEWS FOR FANS
AND PERFORMERS OF IMPROV
COMEDY.
WE'RE BASICALLY APPROVING A
LICENSE TO SERVE FOR THE
ESTABLISHMENT TO SERVE BEER
BREWED ON SITE.
THEY'LL HAVE LIVE COMEDY SHOWS,
IMPROV CLASSES AND THEY'RE
GOING TO ALSO OPERATE AN EVENT
SPACE WITH AN ON SITE FOOD
TRUCK OR THE DISCUSSION PAPER
POSED.
IT IS APPROVED TO RESOLUTION TO
APPROVE A REQUEST FROM AFC
NORTH ANN ARBOR OPKO LLC FOR A
NEW NONPROFIT CONTINUING CARE
RETIREMENT CENTER LIQUOR
LICENSE ISSUED UNDER MCO FOUR
THREE SIX ONE FIVE FOUR FIVE
TWO TO BE LOCATED ONE NINE ZERO
ONE PLYMOUTH ROAD AT AREA PARK
OF ANN ARBOR MOVE BY ACCOUNTS
RAWAT'S AND SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER DISH DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF DC TO COUNCIL MEMBER WATSON
.
THIS LIQUOR LICENSE FALLS UNDER
A SPECIAL CATEGORY THAT APPLIES
TO CONTINUING CARE RETIREMENT
CENTERS AND ALLOWS THEM TO SELL
AND SERVE ALCOHOL FOR
CONSUMPTION BY RESIDENCE OR
THEIR GUESTS ON THE PREMISES
OF THE FACILITY.
THE LIQUOR LICENSE COMMITTEE ON
WHICH I SET WAS HAPPY TO
APPROVE THIS FOR ATRIP WHICH IS
ON NINETEEN ON PLYMOUTH ROAD.
FURTHER DISCUSSION WHILE IN
FAVOR OPPOSED IT IS APPROVED AS
ONE RESOLUTION TO APPROVE FEES
FOR THE FIRE DEPARTMENT
AMBULANCE TRANSPORT AND LIFT
ASSIST AND APPROPRIATE FUNDING
MOVE BY COUNCILOR HARRISON
SECOND BY COUNCIL MEMBER DISH
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF TDS ONE
COUNCIL MEMBER HARRISON.
THANK YOU MAYOR.
I'M CONCERNED ABOUT THE
PROPOSED FEES FOR LIFT
ASSISTANCE AND EMERGENCY
SERVICES BY OUR FIRE
DEPARTMENT.
SOME ARGUE THAT RESIDENTS CAN
SIMPLY EMAIL A CALL TO HAVE
THESE FEES WAIVED.
BUT WE KNOW THAT NAVIGATING
THIRD PROCESSES IS RARELY
STRAIGHTFORWARD, ESPECIALLY FOR
THOSE IN VULNERABLE SITUATIONS
.
THERE'S A NOTION THAT INSURANCE
MAY COVER THESE COSTS BUT WE
MUST CONSIDER DEDUCTIBLES AND
CO-PAYS WHICH CAN BE
SUBSTANTIAL FINANCIAL HURDLES
FOR MANY AND IF ASSISTANCE IS
REQUIRED INDOORS THIS MAY
INVOLVE BREAKING DOWN DOORS,
ADDING TO THE COST AND
COMPLEXITY.
SOME MAY ARGUE THAT THOSE
REQUIRING SERVICES SHOULD BE
REMOVED FROM THEIR HOMES.
THIS PERSPECTIVE NEGATES THE
LONG STANDING BATTLE FOR
SENIORS TO AGE IN PLACE AND FOR
PEOPLE WITH DISABILITIES TO
LIVE INDEPENDENTLY IN THEIR
COMMUNITY.
FOR SOMEONE TO CALL FOR HELP IN
A VULNERABLE SITUATION IS
CHALLENGING ENOUGH THE THOUGHT
OF BEING JUDGED OR FACING
FINANCIAL PENALTIES IN THOSE
MOMENTS IS NOT ONLY DISTRESSING
BUT GOES AGAINST THE PRINCIPLES
OF EMPATHY AND SUPPORT THAT
SHOULD DEFINE OUR COMMUNITY
RATHER THAN IMPOSING FEES, WE
SHOULD EXPLORE OTHER AVENUES.
CAN WE ASSIST WITH HOME
MODIFICATIONS LIKE GRAB BARS,
RAILINGS OR RAMPS?
SHOULD WE ENHANCE OUR
COLLABORATION WITH
ORGANIZATIONS SUCH AS JEWISH
FAMILY SERVICES AND THEIR WASTE
PROGRAM EDGEWAYS NONPROFIT AND
YOUR SERVICES AND THE
DISABILITY NETWORK OF WASHTENAW
MIRALEM AND COUNTY ANN ARBOR
HAS ALWAYS PRIDED ITSELF ON
BEING A LEADER AND HELPING OUR
MOST VULNERABLE.
LET'S NOT MOVE BACKWARD BY
IMPOSING FINANCIAL BARRIERS ON
ESSENTIAL SERVICES.
I WILL NOT BE SUPPORTING THIS
TONIGHT.
I DO RECOMMEND THE FIRE
DEPARTMENT WORK WITH KODAI THE
COMMISSION ON DISABILITY ISSUES
AND OUR ADA COORDINATOR TO SHOW
THEIR COMMITMENT TO SOLUTIONS
THAT RESPECTS THE DIGNITY AND
INDEPENDENCE OF OUR RESIDENTS.
AND I WILL ADD THAT MY
COLLEAGUE COUNCIL MEMBER GHAZI
ADWAN WHO COULD NOT BE HERE
TONIGHT WANTED ME TO SHARE THAT
SHE IS ALSO SHE WOULD ALSO NOT
BE IN SUPPORT OF THIS BUT SHE
CAN SPEAK YOU KNOW SHE CAN
REACH OUT TO THE COMMUNITY WITH
HER OWN WORDS GOING FORWARD.
THANK COUNCILOR BRITISH.
YEAH.
IF IT'S I'D LIKE TO ASK TWO
QUESTIONS ABOUT THIS.
UM, SO UH IN THE TEXT OF THE
RESOLUTION IT SAYS IN AN EFFORT
TO RECOVER COST FOR SERVICES,
THE CITY SIGNED A PROFESSIONAL
SERVANTS' SERVICE AGREEMENT
WITH MY ACCOUNT AND THAT IN
ORDER TO IN ORDER FOR THE CITY
TO BILL FOR SERVICES, THE CITY
MUST ADOPT A FEE STRUCTURE.
ANOTHER THING THAT IT SAYS IN
THE TEXT HERE WHICH I DON'T
UNDERSTAND EXACTLY IS THAT THE
CITY WOULD BILL INDIVIDUALS
PURSUANT TO THE PROPOSED FEE
STRUCTURE.
HOWEVER, FEE BALANCE AFTER
MEDICARE, MEDICAID OR PRIVATE
INSURANCE IS WAIVED.
SO UH, IF I MEAN I THINK I I
COULD HAVE MISUNDERSTOOD BUT I
THOUGHT THAT WE NEEDED THE FEE
STRUCTURE IN ORDER TO BUILD
MEDICARE OR MEDICAID OR PRIVATE
INSURANCE AND THAT ANY
REMAINING CHARGE AFTER WE GOT
PAID FROM THOSE THINGS IS
WAIVED.
GOOD EVENING MAYOR COUNCIL.
SO THERE THERE ARE REALLY TWO
SEPARATE MATTERS AS PART
OF THIS IN AN EFFORT
OF EFFICIENCY.
THEY WERE KIND OF PROPOSED AS A
BUNDLE BUT THEY ARE TWO
DISPARATE THINGS.
THE ONE IS FOR ALMOST A YEAR
NOW THE FIRE DEPARTMENT WE'VE
OPERATED AN AMBULANCE SERVICE
THE SO PART A OF THIS OR THE
FIRST PART OF THIS IS OPERATING
AS AN AMBULANCE SERVICE,
OPERATING AS A LICENSED
TRANSPORT AMBULANCE SERVICE
SIMILAR TO WHAT HE'S BEEN DOING
FOR DECADES IN THE CITY WHEN WE
TRANSPORT SOMEONE TO THE
HOSPITAL AS OF RIGHT NOW WE
HAVE BEEN DOING THAT PRO BONO
AND HAVEN'T BEEN BILLING
INSURANCE SIMILAR TO WHAT HVA
DOES SIMILAR TO WHAT ALMOST ALL
OTHER MUNICIPAL FIRE
DEPARTMENTS IN THE IN THE STATE
OF MICHIGAN THAT OPERATE AN
AMBULANCE SERVICE.
THAT'S THE AMBULANCE PART
OF THIS THAT'S WHERE WE WOULD
WORK WITH THAT ACCOUNT WHICH
WAS THE COMPANY THAT THAT WE
HAD THE PRIOR EXCUSE ME THE
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES AGREEMENT
WITH AND THAT WOULD BASICALLY
BE THAT COMPASSIONATE BILLING
WE WOULD BILL INSURANCE IF WE
DON'T IF IT'S NOT COVERED THEN
WE WOULD WRITE THAT OFF.
SO THAT'S THAT'S KIND OF THE
FIRST BUNDLE OF THIS AND THAT'S
IN ALIGNMENT WITH OTHER
PRACTICES OF OTHER COMMUNITIES.
THE LIFT ASSIST THAT'S A KIND
OF A SEPARATE ONE THAT'S BEEN
SOMETHING THAT WE'VE BEEN
DEALING WITH FOR QUITE SOME
TIME WITH THE FIRE DEPARTMENT
SINCE WE ARE GOING TO BE GOING
THROUGH THIS PROCESS
OF ADOPTION FOR AMBULANCE FEES
.
IT JUST SEEMED THAT THIS WAS
PROBABLY A TIME TO ADDRESS BOTH
BECAUSE WE WERE GOING TO HAVE
TO GO THROUGH THIS
ADMINISTRATIVE PROCESS.
ONE OF THE LARGER ISSUES WITH
THE AMBULANCE EXCUSE ME WITH
LIFT ASSESS IS THERE ARE
NUMEROUS FACILITIES IN THE CITY
OF ANN ARBOR THAT HAVE 24/7
STAFF THAT ARE MAINLY SENIOR
CARE.
THEY ARE TO BE VERY UP FRONT I
THINK ABUSING CITY SERVICES BY
CALLING OUR FIREFIGHTERS TO BE
DOING LIFT ASSIST FOR PATIENTS
THAT ARE PAYING A VERY
EXPENSIVE SERVICE TO BE THERE
AND THEY'RE WANTING OUR STAFF
TO TAKE THAT LIABILITY
OF LIFTING PEOPLE BACK INTO BED
AS OPPOSED TO THE NURSE NURSING
STAFF IT'S THERE.
AND SO ESSENTIALLY WE ARE IN
THOSE INSTANCES FOR SEVERAL
OF THE FACILITIES THAT ARE
LISTED THERE, WE'RE KIND
OF SUBSIDIZING AS THE CITY
THESE ARE VERY EXPENSIVE FOR
PROFIT CORPORATIONS SO THAT
THAT IS ONE ABUSE FACTOR THAT
WE WERE ATTEMPTING TO ADDRESS
WITH THIS.
THE OTHER PART THAT WE ARE
DEALING WITH IS FOR HURON
VALLEY AMBULANCE.
WE ARE ROUTINELY GETTING CALLED
WHERE THERE IS A PATIENT THAT
IS SCHEDULED FOR A MEDICAL
TRANSFER.
SO THIS IS NOT A 911 ONE
SITUATION.
THIS IS A PATIENT THAT HAS A
MEDICAL CONDITION THAT IS GOING
TO A DOCTOR'S APPOINTMENT
GENERALLY THESE ARE BARIATRIC
PATIENTS.
THEY'RE THERE BARIATRIC
PATIENTS THAT WOULD REQUIRE
MORE THAN A TWO PERSON
AMBULANCE CREW TO HELP
TRANSPORT SO THEY CALL SO WE'RE
TAKING A FIRE COMPANY.
WE'RE TAKING THEM OUT
OF SERVICE TO GO MEET THE
AMBULANCE TO LOAD THE PATIENT
TO AN AMBULANCE AND THEN THAT
AMBULANCE TAKES THAT PATIENT TO
A DOCTOR'S APPOINTMENT AND THEN
THREE OR FOUR HOURS LATER WE'RE
GETTING CALLED BACK TO ASSIST
WITH THAT IN REVERSE.
IT'S REALLY MY ARGUMENT THAT
HURON VALLEY AMBULANCES ARE
OPERATING AS A AMBULANCE
TRANSPORT SERVICE AND AGAIN WE
ARE SUBSIDIZING THAT SERVICE
WHERE THEY SHOULD BE USING
THEIR OWN STAFF TO DO THAT
BECAUSE THEY'RE BILLING THE
PATIENT FOR THAT.
WE DON'T RECEIVE ANY
REIMBURSEMENT.
SO THOSE TWO WERE REALLY THE
PRIMARY THE ASSISTED CARE
FACILITIES AND SCHEDULED
TRANSPORT WHICH ARE NOT NINE
ONE ONE CALLS THESE ARE STABLE
PATIENTS.
THEY'RE LITERALLY GOING FOR A
DOCTOR'S APPOINTMENT AND THIS
IS IMPACTING THE AVAILABILITY
OF OUR OF OUR COMPANIES BECAUSE
THEY'RE GOING OUT OF SERVICE TO
DO THIS.
THE SIX FOUR LIFT ASSESS
CERTAINLY THERE WAS NO INTENT
TO BE DISPROPORTIONATE AGAINST
DISABLED MEMBERS OF THE
COMMUNITY FROM OUR EXPERIENCES
AND LOOKING AT COMPARABLE FOR
OTHER OTHER COMMUNITIES THAT
SEEM TO BE A FAIR NUMBER WHERE
IF WE'RE GOING OVER SIX TIMES
IN A YEAR THEN THAT THAT'S KIND
OF A BIT OF A TIPPING POINT.
WE ARE ROUTINELY WORKING WITH
THE SOCIAL SERVICE AGENCIES
THAT ARE MENTIONED
SUSTAINABILITY AS THEY'VE HAD
OUR OFFICE OF SUSTAINABILITY
WITHIN THE CITY.
THEY'VE HAD FUNDING AT TIMES TO
WORK ON THAT TO TRY TO MAKE
MODIFICATIONS TO HOMES.
SO NONE OF THIS IS HAS BEEN
TRYING TO AGAIN
DISPROPORTIONATELY IMPACT
MEMBERS OF DISABLED MEMBERS
OF THE COMMUNITY.
CERTAINLY A RESIDENT THAT HAS
BEEN PAYING TAXES.
THEY HAVE A MEDICAL EMERGENCY.
WE WANT TO GO IN AND AS YOU
SAY, MEDICAL EMERGENCY BECAUSE
THE ONLY TIME THIS WOULD BE
BILLED IF THERE WASN'T AN
INJURY WE DO HAVE ABUSE WITH
THIS.
WE DO GET CALLED AT 2:00 IN THE
MORNING BECAUSE SOMEONE FELL
AND THERE MIGHT BE A CAREGIVER
THERE BUT THERE ARE FOR VARIOUS
SITUATIONS.
SO THERE THERE WAS AN ATTEMPT
FOR REALLY ALL THREE ON THE
LEFT TO ASSIST TO TARGET
BASICALLY ABUSE OF THE SYSTEM
THAT THAT'S REALLY WHERE WE
WERE GOING FOR.
SO BUT AGAIN THERE ARE TWO
SEPARATE ISSUES AT HAND.
COUNCILOR DENHA, THANK YOU.
GIVEN THAT WE HEARD FROM THE
CHAIR OF OUR COMMISSION ON
DISABILITY ISSUES AND I GUESS I
WAS WONDERING IF DID STAFF WORK
AT ALL WITH THEM?
WAS THERE ANY DISCUSSION WITH
TODAY ABOUT HOW WE MIGHT BE
ABLE TO ADJUST THIS OR WORK
WITH THEM AROUND?
YOU KNOW THAT THAT ALONG THAT
THAT WAS A MESS ON OUR END.
SO WERE WELCOME TO DO THAT.
AND AND I GUESS I WONDER TO
THAT EFFECT IF IF THERE'S
PERHAPS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR US
TO POSTPONE THIS SO THAT WE CAN
HAVE THOSE CONVERSATIONS AND
WORK WITH OUR DISABILITY
COMMISSION IS THAT SOMETHING
YOU WOULD BE ABLE TO I'D
CERTAINLY TAKE ANY DIRECTION
FROM COUNCIL, PLEASE.
ARE YOU ABLE TO SEPARATE THE
ITEM THE ITEMS OUT OR DO THEY
NEED TO BE DONE?
THAT WOULD BE TREMENDOUS AND IN
FACT IF WE'RE ABLE TO DO THAT,
THAT'S ABSOLUTELY WHAT I WOULD
ENCOURAGE OF LET'S SPLIT THE
AMBULANCE TRANSPORT FROM THE
LEFT ASSESSED AGAIN THE
AMBULANCE TRANSPORT THAT THAT
THAT IS INDUSTRY PRACTICE
THAT'S THAT'S VERY ALONG THE
LINES OF WHAT WE DO WITH THEIR
TRANSPORT BY HERE AND THEY'RE
GOING TO GET A BILL THAT WE'RE
DOING NOTHING DIFFERENT THAN
WHAT HAS BEEN EXPERIENCED IN
THIS COMMUNITY FOR DECADES.
COUNCILOR, I THINK I KNOW THE
ANSWER TO THIS BUT I JUST WANT
TO BE SURE YOU KNOW, I'M A FAN
OF THE FIRE DEPARTMENT
AMBULANCE ON SO I JUST WANT TO
BE STRAIGHT.
IT'S BASICALLY NO ONE CHOOSES
WHICH AMBULANCE SERVICE WHEN
THEY NEED AN AMBULANCE
TRANSPORT TO THE HOSPITAL THEY
CALL AND THEY GET THE ONE
THAT'S CLOSEST BY THAT HAS THE
RESOURCES THAT ARE NEEDED.
RIGHT.
SO THEY MIGHT GET HERE ON
VALIANT.
AM I GETTING A NUMBER IF YOU'RE
DEPARTMENT CORRECT.
AND ONE OF THE REASONS THAT THE
FIRE DEPARTMENT GOT INTO THE
AMBULANCE SERVICE IS BECAUSE
OF STAFFING ISSUES WITH HERE ON
VALY.
WHAT'S HAPPENED IS THAT IF THEY
ARE A ZERO STATUS AND DON'T
HAVE ANY UNITS AVAILABLE THEN
WE TRANSPORT.
SO IT IS A COMPLETE ROLL OF THE
DICE IF SOMEONE GETS HERE ON
VALY SO RIGHT NOW IF SOMEONE'S
FORTUNATE TO GET THE CITY FIRE
AMBULANCE THERE'S NO BILL OK?
IF THEY WERE TO GET HVA THERE
IS GOING TO BE A BILL.
THIS MAKES THINGS A LITTLE BIT
MORE CONSISTENT AND AGAIN WE
ARE DOING THE IMPASSIONATE
BILLING IF SOMEONE HAS GOOD
HEALTH INSURANCE WILL TAKE THAT
PAYMENT WAS IF NOT ITS ITS ROAD
OFF AT THAT POINT.
THANKS FOR THE CLARIFICATION.
I DON'T HAVE A COPY OF THE
I
DON'T HAVE MY COMPUTER WITH ME
AND SO I DON'T HAVE A COPY
OF THE RESOLUTION.
IS IT EASILY TAXABLE TO FEES MR
MAYOR MR DONY SO THAT
EVERYTHING'S CLEAR WHY DON'T WE
COME BACK WITH A SEPARATE
RESOLUTION THEN YOU CAN
ENTERTAIN THE ITEMS SEPARATELY
IN SUPPORT OF WHAT THE CHIEF IS
SAYING FOR THIRD PARTIES TO BE
USING THE CITY.
I'M NOT TALKING ABOUT
INDIVIDUALS BUT FOR THIRD PARTY
PRIVATE SECTOR COMPANIES TO BE
USING THE CITY TO SUPPLEMENT
WHAT THEY'RE DOING AND THEY'RE
GETTING PAID THAT SHOULDN'T BE
THE SECOND PART IS THE REASON
THAT'S COMING TO YOU THE WAY IT
IS IS WE'RE OFF CYCLE WHEN WE
BROUGHT ON THE AMBULANCE
NORMALLY ALL OF OUR FEE
STRUCTURE COMES AT ONE TIME WE
WEREN'T ABLE TO DO THAT WITH
THIS ITEM WHICH IS WHY YOU'RE
HEARING IT SEPARATELY.
SURELY WE COULD
ADMINISTRATIVELY SEPARATE THESE
THINGS OUT, YOU KNOW?
YEAH, I GUESS IT'S A QUESTION
ARE WE POSTPONING FOR FOR ONE
MEETING OR TWO BECAUSE WE DO
WANT THE OPPORTUNITY FOR TO
ENGAGE WITH WITH KODI.
IT WOULD BE VERY EASY FOR US TO
HAVE THE TRANSPORT ON THE NEXT
I WOULD SUPPORT SPLITTING THESE
ENTIRELY.
I DON'T KNOW THAT WE ARE GOING
TO HAVE THE CHANCE TO WORK WITH
KODAI BETWEEN NOW AND THE NEXT
MEETING.
WE WOULD I WOULD 100 PERCENT BE
ABLE TO HAVE THE AMBULANCE
TRANSPORT SINGULARLY BY THE
NEXT MEETING.
YEAH.
COUNCILOR HARRISON, MY REQUEST
WOULD BE TO YOU KNOW, IF WE'RE
GOING TO POSTPONE US IT'S GOT
TO BE POSTED IN ENOUGH TIME FOR
YOU TO HAVE A MEETING WITH
KODAI.
SO WE HAVE TO BE AFTER YOU KNOW
AND I'M NOT SURE WHEN THE NEXT
KODAI MEETING IS BUT THAT'S IF
WE'RE GOING TO POSTPONE THAT IS
THERE IT HAS TO IF THIS IS A
TWO MEETING POSTPONEMENT, IS
THAT A CHALLENGE FOR THAT JUST
JUST ANOTHER MONTH OF NOT DOING
THAT?
THAT'S JUST ANOTHER MONTH
OF NOT WILLING TO JUST PROVIDE
ANY RISK TO IT TO ELIMINATE
CONFUSION ON SAY I WOULD WE'D
PROBABLY BRING THEM BACK
SEPARATELY JUST REGARDLESS.
SO THERE'S JUST NOT A THERE'S
JUST NOT CONFUSION.
SURE.
THE TWO IS THE COMMISSION ON
DISABILITY ISSUES.
WE'LL MEET ON FEBRUARY 21ST.
ALL RIGHT.
WELL LET'S THEN PERHAPS CHIEF,
IF THIS IS JUST DOESN'T DISRUPT
MATTERS TOO MUCH, PERHAPS WE
HAVE A POSTPONEMENT OF THE
FIRST MEETING IN IN MARCH
PROPOSED WITH THE UNDERSTANDING
THAT IT MAY COME BACK.
WE'LL HAVE TO COME BACK TO THE
AGENDA AS IS BUT THERE WILL BE
IN ALL LIKELIHOOD SUPPLEMENTAL
REPLACEMENT RESOLUTIONS THAT
CAN THEN BE MOVED AND AMENDED
TO THE FLOOR.
SO IS THERE A MOTION FOR
POSTPONEMENT OF THE FIRST
MEETING IN MARCH BY COUNCILOR
HARRISON BY COUNCILOR BRITISH
DISCUSSION THE POSTPONEMENT ON
FAVOR POSED IT'S POSTPONED.
THANK YOU CHIEF.
MR MACDONALD, WE HAVE THE
PLEASURE OF A CLOSED SESSION
TODAY.
WE DO NOT WE HAVE TO FOR THE
SUPPORT OF COMMUNICATIONS
PETITIONS AND REFERRALS MAKE A
MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE THE
CLERK'S SUPPORT MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER QUENELLE SECOND BY
COUNCIL MEMBER ACKMANN
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POSED IT IS
APPROVED MR.
MR MCDONALD ARE THERE
COMMUNICATIONS TODAY FROM OUR
CITY ATTORNEY?
THERE ARE NO WE NOW HAVE PUBLIC
COMMENT OVERFLOW TIME.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS RULES SAY
MATTHEW PASS IT TO MY APOLOGIES
.
HELLO MY NAME IS MATT BOSSART.
I'M IN THE FIFTH WARD AND I'M
ALSO IN THE FIFTH YEAR OF A PHD
PROGRAM WHERE I
STUDY ELECTRIC
POWER SYSTEMS.
I WANT TO STATE MY SUPPORT FOR
THE CITY TO CONDUCT A PHASE TWO
FEASIBILITY STUDY AS YOU'VE
HEARD REPEATEDLY TONIGHT FOR
MUNICIPAL ELECTRIC UTILITY AS
OUTLINED BY ANN ARBOR FOR
PUBLIC POWER, THERE ARE MANY
DECISIONS THAT WE WILL ALL MAKE
LEADING UP TO 20 30 TO TRY AND
MEET THE H0 GOALS BUT ALSO
BEYOND THAT WHICH WILL IMPACT
HOW WE ADDRESS CLIMATE CHANGE,
HOW WE ARE ABLE TO MITIGATE THE
EFFECTS OF CLIMATE CHANGE WHILE
SIMULTANEOUSLY DELIVERING
RELIABLE AND ECONOMIC
ELECTRICITY.
AND FOR ME I THINK THE KEY
QUESTION TO ASK IS WHO WE WANT
TO BE MAKING AND INFLUENCING
THOSE DECISIONS IN THE CURRENT
SYSTEM THESE DECISIONS ARE
EITHER CONTROLLED OR HEAVILY
INFLUENCED BY TEAM BY DATA
WHICH IS AN INVESTOR OWNED
UTILITY AND IS DESIGNED TO
MAXIMIZE ITS OWN PROFITS.
I BELIEVE THAT THE INCENTIVES
OF DTI ARE FUNDAMENTALLY
CONTRADICTORY TO THE TWO ZERO
EMISSION THAT THE CITY HAS
PREVIOUSLY ADOPTED ESTABLISHING
A MUNICIPAL ELECTRIC UTILITY IS
THE ONLY WAY TO ENSURE THAT
THESE DECISIONS AND THERE WILL
BE VANNEY IN THE COMING YEARS
ARE MADE EXCLUSIVELY BY THE
CITY AND PEOPLE OF ANN ARBOR
AND ARE COMPLETELY DECOUPLED
FROM DATA.
IS INFLUENCE THIS THE DECISION
TO PURSUE A MUNICIPAL UTILITY
IS OBVIOUSLY AN IMPORTANT ONE
FOR THE CITY AND FOR THAT
REASON, REGARDLESS OF YOUR
BELIEF OF THE BEST SOLUTION, I
BELIEVE IT IS ABSOLUTELY
WARRANTED TO HAVE ADDITIONAL
ANALYSIS WHICH WE WOULD GET
FROM THE PHASE TWO STUDY.
THANK YOU.
HAVE A MOTION TO ADJOURN PLEASE
MOVE BY COUNCILOR CORNELL'S
HACKENBERG COUNCILOR HARRISON
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POSED.
WE'RE ADJOURNED